<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>APPENDIX THE TRAINING FOR THE NEW DEMOCRACY</h3>
			<p>THE training for the new democracy must be from the cradle⁠—through nursery, school and play, and on and on through every activity of our life. Citizenship is not to be learned in good government classes or current events courses or lessons in civics. It is to be acquired only through those modes of living and acting which shall teach us how to grow the social consciousness. This should be the object of all day school education, of all night school education, of all our supervised recreation, of all our family life, of our club life, of our civic life.</p>
			<p>When we change our ideas of the relation of the individual to society, our whole system of education changes. What we want to teach is interdependence, that efficiency waits on discipline, that discipline is obedience to the whole of which I am a part. Discipline has been a word long connected with school life⁠—when we know how to teach <em>social</em> discipline, then we shall know how to “teach school.”</p>
			<p>The object of education is to fit children into the life of the community.<a id="r146"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f146"><sup>[146]</sup></a> Every cooperative method conceivable, therefore, must be used in our schools for this end. It is at school that children should begin to learn group initiative, group responsibility⁠—in other words social functioning. The group process must be learnt by practice. We should therefore teach subjects which require a working together, we should have group recitations, group investigations, and a gradual plan of self-government. Every child must be shown his place in the life that builds and his relation to all others who are building. All the little daily and hourly experiences of his interrelations must be constantly interpreted to him. Individual competition must, of course, disappear. All must see that the test of success is ability to work with others, not to surpass others.</p>
			<p>Group work is, indeed, being introduced into our more progressive schools. Manual training, especially when the object made is large enough to require the work of two or more, cooking classes, school papers, printing classes <abbr>etc.</abbr>, give opportunity for organization into groups with the essential advantage of the group: coordinated effort.</p>
			<p>Moreover, we should have, and are beginning to have, group recitations. A recitation should not be to test the pupil but to create something. Every pupil should be made to feel that his point of view is slightly different from anyone’s else, and that, therefore, he has something to contribute. He is not to “recite” something which the teacher knows already; he is to contribute not only to the ideas of his fellow-pupils but also to those of his teacher. And this is not impossible even for the youngest. Once when I was in Paris I made the acquaintance of little Michael, a charming English boy of five, who upon being taken to the Louvre by his mother and asked what he thought of the Mona Lisa, replied, with a most pathetic expression, “I don’t think she looks as if she liked little boys.” That was certainly a contribution to Mona Lisa criticism.</p>
			<p>But after the child has been taught in his group recitation to contribute his own point of view, he must immediately be shown that he cannot over-insist upon it; he must be taught that it is only a part of the truth, that he should be eager for all the other points of view, that all together they can find a point of view which no one could work out alone. In other words we can teach collective thinking through group recitations.</p>
			<p>A group recitation may give each pupil the feeling that a whole is being created: (1) by different points of view being brought out and discussed, and (2) by everyone contributing something different: one will do some extra reading, one will bring clippings from newspapers and periodicals, one will take his camera to the Art Museum and take pictures of the casts. Thus we get life, and the lesson of life, into that hour. Thus may we learn the obligation and the joy of “belonging,” not only when our school goes to play some other school, but in every recitation hour of the day. The old idea was that no one should help another in a recitation; the new idea is that everyone is to help everyone else. The kind of competition you have in a group recitation is whether you have added as much as anyone else. You now feel responsible not only for your contribution but that the recitation as a whole should be a worthy thing. Such an aim will overcome much of the present classroom indifference.</p>
			<p>Many more of the regular school activities could be arranged on a group basis than is now thought possible⁠—investigation for instance. This is a big word, but the youngest children sent out to the woods in spring are being taught “original research.”</p>
			<p>Again, every good teacher teaches her pupils to “assemble” his different thoughts, shows them that a single thought is not useful, but only as it is connected with others. The modern teacher is like the modern curator who thinks the group significance of a particular classification more important than the significance of each isolated piece. The modern teacher does not wish his pupils’ minds to be like an old-fashioned museum⁠—a hodgepodge of isolated facts⁠—but a useful workshop.</p>
			<p>Again, to learn genuine discussion should be considered an essential part of our education. Every child must be trained to meet the clash of difference⁠—difference of opinion, difference of interest⁠—which life brings. In some universities professors are putting aside one hour a week for a discussion hour. This should be done in all colleges and schools, and then it should be seen to that it is genuine discussion that takes place in that hour.</p>
			<p>Moreover, in many schools supervised playground and gymnasium activities are being established, athletic clubs encouraged, choruses and dramatic leagues developed, not only because of their value from the health or art point of view, but because they teach the social lesson.</p>
			<p>The question of self-government in the schools is too complicated a subject and has met with too many difficulties, notwithstanding its brilliant successes, to take up here, but undoubtedly some amount of self-control can be given to certain groups, and in the upper grades to whole schools, and when this can be done no training for democracy is equal to the practice of democracy.</p>
			<p>The aim is to create such a mental atmosphere for children that it is natural for them to wish to take their part, to make them understand that citizenship is not obeying the laws nor voting, nor even being President,<a id="r147"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f147"><sup>[147]</sup></a> but that all the visions of their highest moments, all the aspirations of their spiritual nature can be satisfied through their common life, that only thus do we get “practical politics.”</p>
			<p>In our industrial schools it is obviously easier to carry further the teaching of coordinated effort than in the regular day schools.</p>
			<p>Our evening schools must adopt the methods of the more progressive day schools, and must, as they are doing in many cases, add to the usual activities of evening schools.</p>
			<p>The most conscious and deliberate preparation for citizenship is given by the “School Centres” now being established all over the United States. The School Centre movement is a movement to mould the future, to direct evolution instead of trusting to evolution. The subject of this book has been the necessity for community organization, but the ability to meet this necessity implies that we know how to do that most difficult thing in the world⁠—work with other people: that we are ready to sacrifice individual interests to the general good, that we have a fully developed sense of responsibility, that we are trained in initiative and action. But this is not true. If the School Centres are to fill an important place in neighborhood life, they must not only give an opportunity for the development of neighborhood consciousness and neighborhood organization, but they must train up young people to be ready for neighborhood organization. We who believe in the School Centre as one of the most effective means we have for reconstructing city life believe that the School Centre can furnish this training. We hear everywhere of the corruption of American municipal politics, but why should the next generation do any better than the present unless we are training our young men and women to a proper understanding of the meaning of good citizenship and the sense of their own responsibility? The need of democracy today is a trained citizenship. We must deliberately train for citizenship as for music, art or trade. The School Centres are, in fact, both the prophecy of the new democracy and a method of its fulfilment. They provide an opportunity for its expression, and at the same time give to men and women the opportunity for the training needed to bring it to its highest expression.</p>
			<p>The training in the School Centres consists of: group-activities, various forms of civic clubs and classes, and practice in self-government.</p>
			<p>First, we have in the Centres those activities which require working together, such as dramatic and choral clubs, orchestras and bands, civic and debating clubs, folk-dancing and team-games. We want choral unions and orchestras, to be sure, because they will enrich the community life at the same time that they emphasize the neighborhood bond, we want civic and debating clubs because we all need enlightenment on the subjects taken up in these clubs, but the primary reason for choosing such activities is that they are group activities where each learns to identify himself with a social whole. This is the first lesson for all practical life. Take two young men in business. One says of his firm, “<em>They</em> are doing so-and-so”: his attitude is that the business is a complete whole, without him, to which he may indeed be ministering in some degree. Another young man who has been a few weeks with an old-established firm says “<em>We</em> have done so-and-so for years,” “<em>Our</em> policy is so-and-so.” You perhaps smile but you know that he possesses one of the chief requirements for rising.</p>
			<p>In our group the centre of consciousness is transferred from our private to our associate life. Thus through our group activities does neighborhood life become a preparation for neighborhood life; thus does it prepare us for the pouring out of strength and strain and effort in the common cause.</p>
			<p>Then the consciousness of the solidarity of the group leads directly to a sense of responsibility, responsibility in a group and for a group. Sooner or later everyone in a democracy must ask himself, what am I worth to society? Our effort in the Centres is to help the birth of that moment. This is the social lesson: for people to understand that their every act, their work, their home-life, the kind of recreation they demand, the kind of newspapers they read, the bearing of their children, the bringing up of their children⁠—that all these so-called private acts create the city in which they live. It is not just when we vote, or meet together in political groups, or when we take part in some charitable or philanthropic or social scheme, that we are performing our duty to society. Every single act of our life should be looked at as a social act.</p>
			<p>Moreover, we learn responsibility for our group as well as to our group. We used to think, “I must do right no matter what anyone else does.” Now we know how little that exhausts our duty; we must feel an equally keen responsibility for our whole group.</p>
			<p>These then are the lessons which we hope group activities will teach⁠—solidarity, responsibility and initiative⁠—how to take one’s place worthily in a self-directed, self-governing community.</p>
			<p>In the first year of one of our Boston Centres, the people of a certain nationality asked if they might meet regularly at the Centre. At their first meeting, however, they broke up without accomplishing anything, without even deciding to meet again, simply because those present had never learned how to do things with other people. Each man seemed a little island by himself. They explained to me the fact that they made no plans for further meeting by saying that they found they did not know parliamentary law, and some of them must learn parliamentary law before they could organize. I did not feel, however, that that was the real reason. I was sure it was because they had never been accustomed to do things in groups⁠—they had probably never belonged to a basketball team or a dramatic club⁠—and we have to learn the trick of association as we have to learn anything else.</p>
			<p>But the Centres prepare for citizenship not only by group activities but also by direct civic teaching. This takes the form not only of lectures, classes in citizenship, but also of societies like the “junior city councils” or the “legislatures” where municipal and state questions are discussed, and young men’s and young women’s civic clubs. And it must be remembered that the chief value of these clubs is not the information acquired, not even the interest aroused, but the lesson learned of genuine discussion with all the advantages therefrom.<a id="r148"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f148"><sup>[148]</sup></a></p>
			<p>But I have written as if it were our young people who were to be educated by the group activities of the Centres, as if the young people were to have the training for democracy and the older people the exercise of democracy. Nothing could be further from my thoughts. The training for democracy can never cease while we exercise democracy. We older ones need it exactly as much as the younger ones. That education is a continuous process is a truism. It does not end with graduation day; it does not end when “life” begins. Life and education must never be separated. We must have more life in our universities, more education in our life. Chesterton says of H. G. Wells, “One can lie awake nights and hear him grow.” That it might be said of all of us! We need education all the time and we all need education. The “ignorant vote” does not (or should not) mean the vote of the ignorant, we get an ignorant vote very often from educated people; an ignorant vote means ignorance of some particular subject.</p>
			<p>A successful business man said to me the other day, “I graduated from college with honors, but all I learned there has done me little good directly. What I got out of college was an attitude towards life: that life was a matter of constantly learning, that my education had begun and was going on as long as I lived.” Then he went on to say, “This is the attitude I want somehow to get into my factory. Boys and girls come to me with the idea, ‘School is over, learning is behind me, now work begins.’ This is all wrong. I am now planning a school in connection with my factory, not primarily on account of what they will learn in the school, but in order to make them see that their life of steady learning is just beginning and that their whole career depends on their getting this attitude.” Now this is what we want the Centres to do for people: to help them acquire the attitude of learning, to make them see that education is for life, that it is as valuable for adults as for young people.</p>
			<p>We have many forms of adult education: extension courses, continuation and night schools, correspondence schools, courses in settlements, Young Men’s Christian Associations <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> And yet all these take a very small percent of our adult population. Where are people to get this necessary education? Our present form of industry does not give enough. Tending a machine all day is not conducive to thought;<a id="r149"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f149"><sup>[149]</sup></a> a man thus employed gets to rely entirely on his foreman. The man who lets his foreman do his thinking for him all day tends to need a political boss at night. We must somehow counteract the paralyzing effect of the methods of modern industry. In the School Centre we have an opportunity for adult education in the only forms in which many people, tired out with the day’s work, can take it: discussion, recreation, group activities and self-governing clubs. The enormous value of that rapidly spreading movement, the forum movement, and its connection with the School Centres, there is space here only to mention.</p>
			<p>Many people, however, even if not the majority, are eager and hungry for what one man spoke to me of as “real education.” University extension work is spreading rapidly and in many cases adapting itself marvellously to local needs; a much closer connection could be made between the opportunities of the university and the training of the citizen for his proposed increased activity in the state by having university extension work a recognized part of the School Centre, so that everyone, the farmer or the humblest workman, might know that even although he cannot give all his time to college life, he may have the advantage of its training. In the School Centre should be opportunity for the study of social and economic conditions, the work of constitutional conventions, the European situation and our relation to it, the South American situation and our relation to it, <abbr>etc.</abbr> <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
			<p>Moreover, we must remember when we say we all need more education, that even if we could be “entirely” educated, so to speak, at any one minute, the next minute life would have set new lessons for us. The world is learning all the time about health, food values, care of children <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> All that science discovers must be spread. Adult education means largely the assimilation of new ideas; from this point of view no one can deny its necessity.</p>
			<p>I have said that the Centres prepare for citizenship through group activities, through civic clubs and classes and through actual practice in self-government. The Centres may be a real training in self-government, a real opportunity for the development of those qualities upon which genuine self-direction depends, by every club or group being self-governed, and the whole Centre self-directed and self-controlled by means of delegates elected from each club meeting regularly in a Central Council. If we want a nation which shall be really self-governed not just nominally self-governed, we must train up our young people in the ways of self-direction.</p>
			<p>Moreover, the development of responsibility and self-direction will be the most effective means of raising standards. We are hearing a great deal just now of regulated recreation, regulated dance halls <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> We must give regulation a secondary place. There is something better than this which ought to be the aim of all recreation leaders, that is, to educate our young people to want higher standards by interpreting their own experience to them and by getting them to think in terms of cause and effect. You can force a moral code on people from above yet this will change them very little, but by a system of self-governing clubs with leaders who know how to lead, we can make real progress in educating people to higher standards. This is true of athletic games as well as of dances. We find, indeed, that it is true of all parts of our Centre work. Through the stormy paths of club election of officers, I have seen leaders often guide their young men to an understanding of honest politics. It is usually easier, it is true, to do <em>for</em> people, it is easier to “regulate” their lives, but it is not the way to bring the results we wish. We need education, not regulation.</p>
			<p>Self-government in the Centres then means not only the election of officers and the making of a constitution, but a real management of club and Centre affairs, the opportunity to take initiative, to make choices and decisions, to take responsibility. The test of our success in the Centres will always be how far we are developing the self-shaping instinct. But we must remember that we have not given self-government by allowing the members of a club to record their votes. Many people think a neighborhood association or club is self-governing if a question is put to them and everyone votes upon it. But if a club is to be really self-governed it must first learn collective thinking. This is not a process which can be hurried, it will take time and that time must not be grudged. Collective thinking must be reverenced as an act of creation. The time spent in evolving the group spirit is time spent in creating the dynamic force of our civilization.</p>
			<p>Moreover each Centre should be begun, directed and supported (as far as possible) by the adult people of a community acting together for that end. A Centre should not be an undertaking begun by the School Committee and run by the School Committee, but each Centre should be organized by local initiative, to serve local needs, through methods chosen by the people of a district to suit that particular district. The ideal School Centre is a Community Centre. A group of citizens asks for the use of a schoolhouse after school hours, with heat, light, janitor, and a director to make the necessary connection between the local undertaking and the city department. Then that group of citizens is responsible for the Centre: for things worth while being done in the schoolhouse, and for the support of the activities undertaken. By the time such a School Centre is organized by such an association of citizens, neighbors will have become acquainted with one another in a more vital way than before, and they will have begun to learn how to think and to act together as a neighborhood unit.</p>
			<p>We are coming to a more general realization of this. In the municipal buildings in the parks of Chicago, the people are not given free lectures, free moving pictures, free music, free dances <abbr>etc.</abbr>; they are invited to develop their own activities. To the Recreation Centres of New York, operated by the Board of Education, are being added the Community Centres controlled by local boards of neighbors. In Boston we have under the School Committee a department of “The Extended Use of School Buildings,” and the aim is to get the people of each district to plan, carry out and supervise what civic, educational and recreational activities they wish in the schoolhouses.</p>
			<p>A Chicago minister said the other day that the south side of Chicago was the only part of the city where interest in civic problems and community welfare could be aroused, and this he said was because of the South Park’s work in field houses, clubrooms and gymnasiums for the last ten or twelve years.</p>
			<p>When the chairman of the Agricultural Council of Defense of Virginia asked a citizen of a certain county what he thought the prospects were of being able to rouse the people in his county in regard to an increased food production, the prompt reply was, “On the north side of the county we shall have no trouble because we have several Community Leagues there, but on the south side it will be a hard job.”</p>
			<p>The School or Community Centre is the real continuation school of America, the true university of true democracy.</p>
			<hr class="c022"/>
			<div class="nf-center-c1">
				<div class="nf-center">
					<div>
						<span class="fss">PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA</span>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<hr class="c023"/>
			<div class="footnote" id="f1">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r1">1</a>.</span>See William McDougall, Social Psychology.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f2">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r2">2</a>.</span>Probably by no means a group, but tending in some instances in that direction, as in the discussion or conference dinners now so common.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f3">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r3">3</a>.</span>The old definition of the word social has been a tremendous drag on politics. Social policies are not policies for the good of the people but policies created by the people, <abbr>etc.</abbr> <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> We read in the work of a continental sociologist, “When a social will is born in the brain of a man,” but a social will never is born in the brain of a man.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f4">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r4">4</a>.</span>This is essentially the process by which sovereignty is created. Therefore chapters <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_2">II-<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span></a> on The Group Process are the basis of the conception of sovereignty given in <a class="pginternal" href="#pt_3">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></a> and of the relation of that conception to the politics of reconstruction.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f5">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r5">5</a>.</span>This is the heart of the latest ethical teaching based on the most progressive psychology: between two apparently conflicting courses of action, <i>a</i> and <i>b</i>, <i>a</i> is not to be followed and <i>b</i> suppressed, nor <i>b</i> followed and <i>a</i> suppressed, nor must a compromise between the two be sought, but the process must always be one of integration. Our progress is measured by our ability to proceed from integration to integration.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f6">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r6">6</a>.</span>This statement may be misunderstood unless there is borne in mind at the same time: (1) the necessity for the keenest individual thinking as the basis of group thinking, and (2) that every man should maintain his point of view until it has found its place in the group thought, that is, until he has been neither overruled nor absorbed but integrated.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f7">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r7">7</a>.</span>We must not of course confuse the type of unifying spoken of here (an integration), which is a psychological process, with the “reconciliation of opposites,” which is a logical process.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f8">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r8">8</a>.</span>I am sometimes told that mine is a counsel of perfection only to be realized in the millenium, but we cannot take even the first step until we have chosen our path.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f9">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r9">9</a>.</span>The break in the English Cabinet in 1915, which led to the coalition Cabinet, came when both Kitchener and Churchill tried to substitute individual for group action.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f10">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r10">10</a>.</span>Free speech is not an “individual” right; society needs every man’s difference.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f11">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r11">11</a>.</span>It has been overemphasized in two ways: first, many of the writers on imitation ignore the fact that the other law of association, that of interpenetrating, is also in operation in our social life, as well as the fact that it has always been the fundamental law of existence; secondly, they speak as if it were <em>necessary</em> for human beings to be under the law of imitation, not that it is merely a stage in our development.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f12">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r12">12</a>.</span>This is the alpha and omega of philosophical teaching: Heraclitus said, “Nature desires eagerly opposites and out of them it completes its harmony, not out of similars.” And James, twenty-four hundred years later, has given his testimony that the process of life is to “compenetrate.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f13">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r13">13</a>.</span>Also the group-units of early societies are studied to the exclusion of group-units within modern complex society.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f14">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r14">14</a>.</span>Even some of our most advanced thinking, which repudiates the like-minded theory and takes pains to prove that imitation is not an instinct, nevertheless falls into some of the errors implicit in the imitation theory.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f15">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r15">15</a>.</span>When we come in <a class="pginternal" href="#pt_3">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></a> to consider the group process in relation to certain political methods now being proposed, we shall find that part of the present disagreement of opinion is verbal. I therefore give here a list of words which can be used to describe the genuine social process and a list which gives exactly the wrong idea of it. Good words: integrate, interpenetrate, interpermeate, compenetrate, compound, harmonize, correlate, coordinate, interweave, reciprocally relate or adapt or adjust, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> Bad words: fuse, melt, amalgamate, assimilate, weld, dissolve, absorb, reconcile (if used in Hegelian sense), <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f16">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r16">16</a>.</span>This does not, however, put us with those biologists who make conscience a “gregarious instinct” and⁠—would seem to be willing to keep it there. This is the insidious herd fallacy which crops up constantly in every kind of place. We may today partake largely of the nature of the herd, our conscience may be to some extent a herd conscience, but such is not the end of man for it is not the true nature of man⁠—man does not find his expression in the herd.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f17">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r17">17</a>.</span>To a misunderstanding of this point are due some of the fallacies of the political pluralists (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_32">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXII</span></a>).</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f18">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r18">18</a>.</span>See <abbr>p.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_45">45</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f19">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r19">19</a>.</span>This view of purpose is not necessarily antagonistic to the “interest” school of sociology, but we may perhaps look forward to a new and deeper analysis of self-interest. And the view here put forward is not incompatible with the “objective” theory of association (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a>) nor with the teleological school of jurisprudence (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_15">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</span></a>), it merely emphasizes another point of view⁠—a point of view which tends to synthesize the “subjective” and “objective” theories of law. But those jurists who say that a group is governed by its purpose and leave the matter there are making a thing-in-itself of the purpose; we are governed by the purpose, yes, but we are all the time evolving the purpose. Modern jurists wish a dynamic theory of law⁠—only such a conception of purpose as is revealed by group psychology will give value to a teleological school of jurisprudence.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f20">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r20">20</a>.</span>In a relation even of two I am not faithful to the other person but to my conception of the relation in the whole. Loyalty is always to the group idea not to the group-personnel. This must change our idea of patriotism.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f21">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r21">21</a>.</span>See<a class="pginternal" href="#ch_15">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</span></a>, “From Contract to Community.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f22">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r22">22</a>.</span>This is the principle of the vote in a democracy (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_21">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXI</span></a>). This must not, however, be confused with the old Hegelianism (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a> on “Sovereignty”).</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f23">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r23">23</a>.</span>In art this is what impressionism has meant. In the era before impressionism art was in a static phase, that is, artists were working at fixed relations. The “balance” of modern artists does not suggest fixedness, but relation subject directly to the laws of the whole.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f24">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r24">24</a>.</span>I speak of it as later because the biological analogy was different from the organism of medieval doctrine.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f25">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r25">25</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_30">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span></a>, “Political Pluralism and Functionalism.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f26">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r26">26</a>.</span>See <abbr>p.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_66">66</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f27">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r27">27</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_21">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXI</span></a>. I have been told that the distinction between the organic and the psychic theory of society is merely academic. But no one should frame amendments on the initiative and referendum without this distinction; no one without it can judge wisely the various schemes now being proposed for occupational representation⁠—something every one of us will have soon to do.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f28">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r28">28</a>.</span>It must be remembered, however, that these welfare arrangements are often accompanied by truly social motives, and experiments looking towards a more democratic organization of industries.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f29">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r29">29</a>.</span>A good example of the crowd fallacy is the syndicalist theory that the vote should be taken in a meeting of strikers not by ballot but by acclamation or show of hands. The idea is that in an open meeting enthusiasm passes from one to another and that, therefore, you can thus get the collective will which you could not get by every man voting one by one.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f30">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r30">30</a>.</span>It is unfortunate to be obliged to treat this important point with such brevity.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f31">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r31">31</a>.</span>The expressions “mutual aid” and “animal cooperation” have, however, a slightly misleading connotation; mutual adaptation, coordinated activities, come nearer the truth. It is confusing to take the words and phrases we use of men in the conscious stage and transfer them to the world of animals in the unconscious stage.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f32">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r32">32</a>.</span>It is because of this profound truth that we must always respect conservatism.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f33">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r33">33</a>.</span>The claim of the individual to a larger share in government and to a share in the control of industry will be taken up in later chapters.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f34">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r34">34</a>.</span>“<span lang="fr">Ce que Nait</span>” is the title of a volume of poems by Arcos, and that which is being born through all the activity of our common life is God. It is of the “<span lang="fr">naissance</span>” and “<span lang="fr">croissance</span>” of God that Arcos loves to sing.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f35">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r35">35</a>.</span>I have said that we gain creative power through the group. Those who feel enthralled by material conditions, and to whom it seems an irony to be told that they are “creators,” will demand something more specific. Concrete methods of group organization are given in <a class="pginternal" href="#pt_3">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f36">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r36">36</a>.</span>It is interesting to notice that Miss Lathrop’s whole conception of the Children’s Bureau is that it is to fit children into the life of the community.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f37">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r37">37</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#appendix">Appendix</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f38">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r38">38</a>.</span>The new farm industrial system which is to replace Sing Sing is founded largely on the community idea.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f39">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r39">39</a>.</span>France, Norway, Switzerland. In Norway it is said that more then three-quarters of the cases which come before the conciliation courts are settled without lawsuits.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f40">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r40">40</a>.</span>“Experiences in Cooperative Competition,” by W. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">V</span>. Spaulding.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f41">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r41">41</a>.</span>The great value of Robert Valentine’s work consisted in his recognition of this fact.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f42">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r42">42</a>.</span>I am speaking in general. It is true that the history of cases settled by arbitration reveals many in which the “umpire” has insisted that negotiations continue until the real coincident interest of both sides should be discovered.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f43">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r43">43</a>.</span>It has long been known in England and America but recently it has been spreading rapidly.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f44">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r44">44</a>.</span>Recently abandoned.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f45">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r45">45</a>.</span>The three firms which have carried co-management furthest are the Printz-Biederman <abbr>Co.</abbr> of Cleveland, the <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">Wm.</abbr> Filene’s Sons <abbr>Co.</abbr> of Boston and the U. S. Cartridge <abbr>Co.</abbr> of Lowell. See Report of Committee on Vocational Guidance, Fourth Annual Convention of National Association of Corporation Schools, by Henry C. Metcalf.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f46">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r46">46</a>.</span>We have a number of minor instances of the recognition of the group principle in industry. An interesting example is the shop piecework in the Cadbury works, where the wages are calculated on the output of a whole workroom, and thus everyone in the room has to suffer for the laziness of one. (See “Experiments in Industrial Organization,” by Edward Cadbury.)</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f47">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r47">47</a>.</span>I have not spoken of the cooperative buying and selling movement because by the name alone it is obvious how well it illustrates my point, and also because it is so well known to everyone.</p>
				<p>Another evidence of the spreading of the community idea is the wide acceptance of the right of the community to value created by the community.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f48">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r48">48</a>.</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 8, 610.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f49">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r49">49</a>.</span>Pound, Outlines of Lectures on Jurisprudence, <abbr>p.</abbr> 20. The influence of sociology on law has here been very marked. For further discussion of a teleological jurisprudence, see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f50">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r50">50</a>.</span>Duguit, <a id="tn123"/><span lang="fr">L’État, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive</span>, 398⁠–⁠409, from Jellinek, <span lang="de">System der subjektiren öffentlichen Rechte</span>, 193.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f51">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r51">51</a>.</span>The whole legal history of associations and the development of association law throws much light on the growth of the community idea.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f52">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r52">52</a>.</span>Also, I recognize, because his “<i lang="fr">droit objectif</i>” based on social solidarity tends to sweep away contract. It is interesting to notice that contract is being attacked from more than one point of view. The bearing of all this on politics will be seen later, especially in <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a>, “Political Pluralism and Sovereignty.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f53">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r53">53</a>.</span>Quoted by Roscoe Pound in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 8, 616.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f54">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r54">54</a>.</span>Statutes limiting the hours of labor were held unconstitutional, railway corporations were held not to be required to furnish discharged employees with a cause for dismissal, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f55">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r55">55</a>.</span>Harlan, J., in Mugler <i>v.</i> Kansas, 123 U. S. 623. Taken from Roscoe Pound, Liberty of Contract, Yale Law Journal, 18, 468.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f56">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r56">56</a>.</span>The End of Law as Developed in Legal Rules and Doctrine, Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 27, 195⁠–⁠234.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f57">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r57">57</a>.</span>“Statutes⁠ ⁠… have taken many features of the subject out of the domain of agreement and the tendency of judicial decision has been in effect to attach rights and liabilities to the relation of insurer and insured and thus to remove insurance from the category of contract.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f58">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r58">58</a>.</span>The old idea of “contributory negligence” is seen in the following decision: “We must remember that the injury complained of is due to the negligence of a fellow workman, for which the master is responsible neither in law nor morals.” Durkin <i>v.</i> Coal <abbr>Co.</abbr> 171, Pa. <abbr>St.</abbr> 193, 205. Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Yale Law Journal, 18, 467.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f59">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r59">59</a>.</span>This is the “new natural law” of which <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Pound speaks as “the revival of the idealist interpretation which is the enduring possession of philosophical jurisprudence.” Formerly, we are told, “equity imposed moral limitations. The law today is beginning to impose social limitations.” Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 27, 227.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f60">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r60">60</a>.</span>“The Constitutional Opinions of Justice Holmes,” by Felix Frankfurter, Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 29, 683⁠–⁠702.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f61">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r61">61</a>.</span>Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 25, 505.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f62">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r62">62</a>.</span>It has been proposed that we should have trained business men on the benches of our supreme courts as well as lawyers. I should think it would be better for our lawyers to be so conversant with social facts that this need not be necessary.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f63">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r63">63</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a> for the theory of “objective rights” now held by many as the basis of the new state.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f64">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r64">64</a>.</span>This is a hoary quarrel. From the beginning of our government it was seen that the equal rights doctrine was a sword which could cut both ways. Both Federalists and Republicans believed in equal rights: the Federalists, therefore, wanted to protect individuals with a strong government; the Republicans wanted a weak government so that individuals could be let alone in the exercise of their equal rights.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f65">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r65">65</a>.</span>This view of democracy was well satirized by someone, I think Lord Morley, who said, “I do not care who does the voting as long as I do the counting.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f66">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r66">66</a>.</span>Proportional representation is interesting to the view put forward in this book because it is a method to bring out all the differences.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f67">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r67">67</a>.</span>Arcos, Romains and Vildrac are the chief of these. Romains, who has written “<span lang="fr">La Vie Unanime</span>,” is the most interesting for our present purpose, for his togetherness is so plainly that of the herd:</p>
				<div class="c021 lg-container-b">
					<div class="linegroup">
						<div class="group">
							<div class="line">… “<span lang="fr">quelle joie</span></div>
							<div class="in6 line">
								<span lang="fr">De fondre dans ton corps [le ville] immense</span>
							</div>
							<div class="in6 line"><span lang="fr">oú l’on a chaud!</span>”</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
				<p class="c019">Here is our old friend, the wild ox, in the mask of the most civilized (perhaps) portion of our most civilised (perhaps) nation. Again</p>
				<div class="c021 lg-container-b">
					<div class="linegroup">
						<div class="group">
							<div class="line">“<span lang="fr">Nous sommes indistincts: chacun de nous est mort;</span></div>
							<div class="line"><span lang="fr">Et la vie unanime est notre sépulture.</span>”</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f68">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r68">68</a>.</span>Other results of the increased reading of newspapers and magazines are that large questions are driving out trivial interests (I find this very marked in the country), and the enormous amount of publicity now given everything finds a channel to the public through the press. The reports of commissions, like the Industrial Relations Commission, the surveys, like the Pittsburgh Survey, the reports of foundations, like the Russell Sage, the reports of the rapidly increasing bureaus of research, like the New York Municipal Bureau, all find their way to us through the columns of our daily or weekly or monthly. Therefore we have more material on which to found individual thinking.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f69">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r69">69</a>.</span>Also the development of the relation of individualistic theories to the rise and decline of the doctrines regarding the national state.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f70">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r70">70</a>.</span>I do not wish, however, to minimize the truly democratic nature of our local institutions.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f71">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r71">71</a>.</span>While it is true that there were undemocratic elements in the mental equipment and psychological bent of our forefathers, and it is these which I have emphasized because from them came our immediate development, it is equally true that there were also sound democratic elements to which we can trace our present ideas of democracy. Such tracing even in briefest form there is not space for here.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f72">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r72">72</a>.</span>It became at once evident that a government whose chief function was to see that individual rights, property rights, state rights, were not invaded, was hardly adequate to unite our colonies with all their separatist instincts, or to meet the needs of a rapidly developing continent. Our national government at once adopted a constructive policy. Guided by Hamilton it assumed constructive powers authority for which could be found in the constitution only by a most liberal construction of its terms. When Jefferson, an antinationalist, acquired Louisiana in 1803, it seemed plain that no such restricted national government as was at first conceived could possibly work.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f73">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r73">73</a>.</span>These English writers to whom our debt is so large are not responsible for this, but their misinterpreters.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f74">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r74">74</a>.</span>With the executive and legislative limited in their powers, the decisions of the courts gradually came, especially as they developed constructive powers, to be a body of law which guided the American people.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f75">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r75">75</a>.</span>For ways of doing this see <a class="pginternal" href="#pt_3">Part <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f76">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r76">76</a>.</span>We used to think frequent elections democratic. Now we know that they mean simply an increase of party influence and a decrease of official responsibility.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f77">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r77">77</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_30">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXX</span></a>, “Political Pluralism and Functionalism.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f78">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r78">78</a>.</span><i lang="fr">Laissez-faire</i> was popular when there were great numbers of individual producers. When the large-scale business system made wage-earners of these, there was the beginning of the breakdown of <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f79">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r79">79</a>.</span>Besides the more obvious one of “universal suffrage.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f80">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r80">80</a>.</span>This movement to form societies based on our occupations is of course, although usually unconscious, part of the whole syndicalist movement, and as such has real advantages which will be taken up later.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f81">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r81">81</a>.</span>Since April, 1917, with the rapidly extending use of the schoolhouse as a centre for war services, these numbers have probably greatly increased.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f82">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r82">82</a>.</span>See Appendix, <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_36">The Training for the New Democracy</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f83">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r83">83</a>.</span>That it is also in many instances leading the way to real community organization makes it one of the most valuable movements of our time.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f84">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r84">84</a>.</span>Public opinion in a true democracy is a potential will. Therefore for practical purposes they are identical and I use them synonymously.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f85">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r85">85</a>.</span>Our federal system of checks and balances thwarted the will of the people. The party system thwarted the will of the people. Our state governments were never designed to get at the will of the people.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f86">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r86">86</a>.</span>The war has shown us that our national agricultural program can best be done on a cooperative neighborhood basis: through the establishment of community agricultural conferences, community labor, seed and implement exchanges, community canning centres, community markets, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f87">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r87">87</a>.</span>I do not mean to imply that I think it is easy to learn how to identify ourselves with our city, especially for those who live in large cities. The men of a small town know that if they have a new town-hall they will have to pay for it. In a large city men ask for a ward building because they will not have to pay for it, they think. It is all this which neighborhood organization and the integration of neighborhoods, of which I shall speak later, must remedy.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f88">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r88">88</a>.</span>The plan of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Wilbur Phillips for community organization and for the connection with it of expert service is too comprehensive to describe here, but based as it is on their actual experience, and planning as it does for the training of whole neighborhoods and the arousing of them to responsibility and action, it should be studied by everyone, for such plans are, I believe, the best signs we have that democracy is yet possible for America.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f89">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r89">89</a>.</span>How much we are all indebted to the settlements as the pioneer neighborhood movement I do not stop to consider here.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f90">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r90">90</a>.</span>This point will be taken up in <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_33">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXIII</span></a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f91">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r91">91</a>.</span>Or perhaps the Senate might represent the occupational group (see <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_33">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXIII</span></a>). Or perhaps the experts mentioned above might be representatives from occupational groups.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f92">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r92">92</a>.</span>In North Carolina the recently organized State Bureau of Community Service⁠—made up of the administrators of the Department of Agriculture, the Board of Health, the Normal and Industrial College and the Farmers’ Union, with the State Superintendent of Public Instruction as its central executive⁠—is making its immediate work the development of local community organization which shall be directly articulated with a unified state organization.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f93">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r93">93</a>.</span>The Community Council, however, is not to duplicate other organizations but first to coordinate all existing agencies before planning new activities.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f94">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r94">94</a>.</span>And spontaneously many towns and villages turned to the schoolhouse as the natural centre of its war services.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f95">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r95">95</a>.</span>For the moment I ignore the occupational group to be considered later.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f96">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r96">96</a>.</span>I have taken this account from the official report. I have been told by New York people that these commissions have shown few signs of life. This does not, however, seem to me to detract from the value of the plan as a suggestion, or as indication of what is seen to be advisable if not yet wholly practicable. The New York charter provides for Local Improvement Boards as connecting links with the central government, but these I am told have shown no life whatever.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f97">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r97">97</a>.</span>Léon Duguit, Graham Wallis, Arthur Christensen, Norman Angell, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr></p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f98">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r98">98</a>.</span>The fatal flaw of guild socialism is this separation of economics and politics. First, the interests of citizenship and guild-membership are not distinct; secondly, in any proper system of occupational representation everyone should be included⁠—vocational representation should not be trade representation; third, as long as you call the affairs of the guilds “material,” and say that the politics of the state should be purified of financial interests, you burn every bridge which might make a unity of financial interests and sound state policy. Guild socialism, however, because it is a carefully worked out plan for the control of industry by those who take part in it, is one of the most well worth considering of the proposals at present before us.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f99">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r99">99</a>.</span>See G. D. H. Cole, “The World of Labor,” for the relation of trade unionism to guild socialism.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f100">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r100">100</a>.</span>See especially “Churches in the Modern State” and “Studies in Political Thought from Gerson to Grotius.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f101">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r101">101</a>.</span>See also <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Laski’s articles: “The Personality of Associations,” Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr> 29, 404⁠–⁠426, and “Early History of the Corporation in England,” Harv. Law <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Rev.</abbr>: 30, 561⁠–⁠588. This is the kind of work which is breaking the way for a new conception of politics.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f102">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r102">102</a>.</span>It must be understood that all I say does not apply to all the pluralists. For the sake of brevity I consider them as a school although they differ widely. Moreover, for convenience I am using the word pluralist roughly and in a sense inaccurately to include all those who are advocating a multiple group organization as the basis of a new state. Most of these agree in making the group rather than the individual the unit of politics, in their support of group “rights,” the “consent” of the group, the “balance” of groups, and in their belief that “rights” should be based on function. But syndicalists and guild socialists are not strictly pluralists since they build up a system based on the occupational group; yet the name is not wholly inapplicable, for, since the guild socialists base their state on balancing groups, that state cannot be called a unified state. It is too early yet to speak of this school with entire accuracy, and in fact there is no “school.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f103">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r103">103</a>.</span>From this was taken, Gierke tells us, modern German “fellowship.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f104">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r104">104</a>.</span>And the individual was certainly as prominent in medieval theory as the community of individuals, a fact which the vigorous corporate life of the Middle Ages may lead us to forget.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f105">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r105">105</a>.</span>See writings of Ramiro de Maeztu in New Age and his book mentioned above.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f106">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r106">106</a>.</span>See “<span lang="fr">Traité de Droit Constitutionnel</span>” and “<span lang="fr">Études de Droit Public</span>”: I, <span lang="fr">L’État, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive</span>; <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>, <span lang="fr">L’État, Les Gouvernants and Les Agents</span>.</p>
				<p>As in French <i lang="fr">droit</i> may be either law or <em>a</em> <a id="tn273"/>right, Duguit, in order to distinguish between these meanings, follows the German distinction of <i lang="de">objektives Recht</i> and <i lang="de">subjektives Recht</i>, and speaks of <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i> and <i lang="fr">le droit subjectif</i>, thus meaning by <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i> merely law. But because he at the same time writes of power as resting on function in contradistinction to the classical theory of the abstract “rights” of man, rights apart from law and only declared by law, political writers sometimes speak of Duguit’s “objective” theory of law, as opposed to a “subjective” theory of law, when jurists would tell us that law <em>is</em> objective, and that subjective right is always merely <em>a</em> right, my right. This matter of terminology must be made much clearer than it is at present.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f107">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r107">107</a>.</span>Although how far Duguit had in mind merely the solidarity of French and Roman law has been questioned.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f108">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r108">108</a>.</span>I have just read in a work on sociology, “Men surrender their individual wills to the collective will.” No, the true social process is not when they <em>surrender</em> but when they <em>contribute</em> their wills to the collective will. See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_2">chs. II-<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</span></a>, “The Group Process.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f109">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r109">109</a>.</span>See <abbr>p.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_130">130</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f110">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r110">110</a>.</span>De Maeztu tells us, “Rights do not arise from personality. This idea is mystic and unnecessary. Rights arise primarily from the relation of the associated with the thing which associates them.⁠ ⁠…” Authority, Liberty, and Function, <abbr>p.</abbr> 250.</p>
				<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Barker substitutes purpose for personality and will as the unifying bond of associations, and says that we thus get rid of “murder in the air” when it is a question of the “competition of ideas, not of real collective personalities.” (See “The Discredited State,” in <cite>The Political Quarterly</cite>, February, 1915.) This seems a curiously anthropomorphic, so to speak, idea of personality for a twentieth-century writer. The article is, however, an interesting and valuable one.</p>
				<p>See also Pollock and Maitland, History of English Law, I, 472.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f111">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r111">111</a>.</span>See “Underlying Principles of Legislation.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f112">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r112">112</a>.</span>The teleological school of sociology is interesting just here. While it marked a long advance on older theories, the true place of selection of ends is today more clearly seen. We were told: “Men have wants, therefore they come together to seek means to satisfy those wants.” When do men “come together”? When were they ever separated? But it is not necessary to push this further.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f113">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r113">113</a>.</span>I have tried not to jump the track from legal right to ethical right but occasionally one can speak of them together, if it is understood that one is not thereby merging them.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f114">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r114">114</a>.</span>The old consent theory assumes that some make the laws and others obey them. In the true democracy we shall obey the laws we have ourselves made. To find the methods by which we can be approaching the true democracy is now our task; we can never rest satisfied with “consent.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f115">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r115">115</a>.</span>Although I do not agree with the form individualism takes in his doctrine.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f116">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r116">116</a>.</span>Some of the pluralists are concerned, I recognize, with the fact rather than the right of sovereignty.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f117">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r117">117</a>.</span>The trouble with the pluralists is that their emphasis is not on the fact that the group creates its own personality, but on the fact that the state does <em>not</em> create it. When they change this emphasis, their thinking will be unchained, I believe, and leap ahead to the constructive work which we eagerly await and expect from them.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f118">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r118">118</a>.</span>It is also necessary to an understanding of the new international law. See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_35">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXV</span></a>, “The World State.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f119">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r119">119</a>.</span>No one has yet given us a satisfactory account of the history of the notion of sovereignty: just how and in what degree it has been affected by history, by philosophy, by jurisprudence, <abbr>etc.</abbr>, and how all these have interacted. We have not only to disentangle many strands to trace each to its source, but we have, moreover, just not to disentangle them, but to understand the constant interweaving of all. To watch the interplay of legal theory and political philosophy from the Middle Ages down to the present day is one of the most interesting parts of our reading, but perhaps nowhere is it more fruitful than in the idea of sovereignty. We see the corporation long ignored and the idea of legal partnership influencing the development of the social contract theory, which in its turn reacted on legal theory. We find the juristic conception of group personality, clearly seen as early as Althusius (1557⁠–⁠1638), and revived and expanded by Gierke, influencing the whole German school of “group sociologists.” But today are not many of us agreed that however interesting such historical tracing, our present notion of sovereignty must rest on what we learn from group psychology?</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f120">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r120">120</a>.</span>The French syndicalists avowedly do not want democracy because it “mixes the classes,” because, as they say, interests and aims mingle in one great mass in which all true significance is lost.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f121">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r121">121</a>.</span>See <abbr>p.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_184">184</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f122">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r122">122</a>.</span>This is the basis of Duguit’s international law⁠—the place of a state in an international league is to be determined directly by services rendered.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f123">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r123">123</a>.</span>Quoted by Duguit.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f124">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r124">124</a>.</span>It must be remembered, however, that while in the Civil War we definitely gave up the compact theory held by us since the Mayflower compact, yet we did not adopt the organism theory. The federal state we have tried and are trying to work out in America is based on the principles of psychic unity described in <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_10">chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">X</span></a>. The giving up of the “consent” theory does not bring us necessarily to the organic theory of society.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f125">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r125">125</a>.</span>Duguit says that the United States confers the rights of a state on a territory. No, it recognizes that which already exists.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f126">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r126">126</a>.</span>“The word ‘and’ trails along after every sentence. Something always escapes.⁠ ⁠… The pluralistic world is thus more like a federal republic than like an empire or a kingdom.” “A Pluralistic Universe,” 321⁠–⁠322.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f127">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r127">127</a>.</span>When they say that the passion for unity is the urge for a dominant One, they think of the dominant One as outside.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f128">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r128">128</a>.</span>One of the pluralists says, “I cannot see that⁠ ⁠… sovereignty is the unique property of any one association.” No, not sovereignty over “others,” but sovereignty always belongs to any genuine group; as groups join to form another real group, the sovereignty of the more inclusive group is evolved⁠—that is the only kind of state sovereignty which we can recognize as legitimate. (See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_29">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXIX</span></a> on “Political Pluralism and Sovereignty.”)</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f129">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r129">129</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_15">ch. <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</span></a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f130">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r130">130</a>.</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Laski is an exception to many writers on “consent.” When he speaks of consent he is referring only to the actual facts of today. Denying the sovereignty postulated by the lawyers (he says you can never find in a community any one will which is certain of obedience), he shows that as a matter of fact the state sovereignty we have now rests on consent. I do not wish to confuse the issue between facts of the present and hopes for the future, but I wish to make a distinction between the “sovereignty” of the present end the sovereignty which I hope we can grow. This distinction is implicit in <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Laski’s book, but it is lacking in much of the writing on the “consent of the governed.”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f131">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r131">131</a>.</span>Wherever you have the social contract theory in any form, and assent as the foundation of power, there is no social process going on; the state is an arbitrary creation of men. Group organization today must give up any taint whatever of the social contract and rest squarely and fully on its legitimate psychological basis.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f132">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r132">132</a>.</span>This is perhaps a remnant of the nineteenth-century myth that competition is the mode of progress.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f133">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r133">133</a>.</span>See <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_39"><abbr>p.</abbr> 39</a>, <a class="pginternal" href="#f15">note</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f134">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r134">134</a>.</span><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Laski, I think.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f135">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r135">135</a>.</span>It does not matter in the terms of which branch of study you express it⁠—philosophy, sociology, or political science⁠—it is always the same problem.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f136">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r136">136</a>.</span>See <abbr>pp.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_199">199⁠–⁠201</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f137">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r137">137</a>.</span>Some writers talk of trade representation <abbr>vs.</abbr> party organization as if in the trade group you are rid of party. Have they studied the politics of trade unionism? In neither the trade group nor the neighborhood group do you automatically get rid of the party spirit. That will be a slow growth indeed.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f138">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r138">138</a>.</span>Yet perhaps the trade-union has been one of the truest groups, one of the most effective teachers of genuine group lessons which we have yet seen. Increased wages, improved conditions, are always for the group. The trade-unionist feels group-wants; he seeks to satisfy these through group action. Moreover the terms of a collective bargain cannot be enforced without a certain amount of group solidarity. In strikes workmen often sacrifice their own interests for what will benefit the union: the individual⁠—I may prefer his present wages to the privations of a strike; the group-I wants to raise the wages of the whole union.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f139">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r139">139</a>.</span>I have not in this brief statement distinguished between government “ownership,” “control,” “regulation,” <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> See “War-Time Control of Industry” by Howard L. Gray.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f140">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r140">140</a>.</span>“Representative Government in British Industry” by J. A. Hobson, in <cite>New Republic</cite>, September 1, 1917.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f141">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r141">141</a>.</span>See <abbr>p.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_120">120</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f142">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r142">142</a>.</span>Following the precedent of England which provided, under the Munitions of War act and other legislation, machinery (joint boards representing employers and employed) for the prevention and adjustment of labor disputes.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f143">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r143">143</a>.</span>Christensen, “Politics and Crowd Morality,” <abbr>p.</abbr> 238.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f144">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r144">144</a>.</span>See <abbr>pp.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_58">58⁠–⁠59</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f145">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r145">145</a>.</span>It has usually been supposed that wars have been the all-important element in consolidating nations; I do not want to disregard this element, I want only to warn against its over emphasis. Moreover, the way in which wars have had a real and permanent influence in the consolidation of nations is by the pressure which they have exerted upon them in showing them that efficiency is obtained by the closest cooperation and coordination of all our activities, by a high degree of internal organization.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f146">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r146">146</a>.</span>The western states feel that they are training members of society and not individuals and that is why it seems proper to them to take public money to found state universities.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f147">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r147">147</a>.</span>A little girl I know said, “Mother, if women get the vote, shall I <em>have</em> to be President?”</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f148">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r148">148</a></span>See <abbr>pp.</abbr> <a class="pginternal" href="#Page_208">208⁠–⁠212</a>.</p>
			</div>
			<div class="footnote" id="f149">
				<p><span class="label"><a class="pginternal" href="#r149">149</a>.</span>Also men have less opportunity for discussion at work than formerly.</p>
			</div>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
