<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_2">2</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="ch_0">THE NEW STATE<br/> <br/>INTRODUCTION</h2>
</div>

<div><span class="pageno" id="Page_3">3</span></div>
<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">
OUR political life is stagnating, capital and labor
are virtually at war, the nations of Europe
are at one another’s throats—because we have
not yet learned how to live together. The twentieth
century must find a new principle of association. Crowd
philosophy, crowd government, crowd patriotism must go.
The herd is no longer sufficient to enfold us.</p>

<p class="c013">Group organization is to be the new method in politics,
the basis of our future industrial system, the foundation
of international order. Group organization will create
the new world we are now blindly feeling after, for creative
force comes from the group, creative power is evolved
through the activity of the group life.</p>

<p class="c013">We talk about the evils of democracy. We have not
yet tried democracy. Party or “interests” govern us
with some fiction of the “consent of the governed”
which we say means democracy. We have not even a
conception of what democracy means. That conception
is yet to be forged out of the crude ore of life.</p>

<p class="c013">We talk about the tragedy of individualism. The
individual we do not yet know, for we have no methods
to release the powers of the individual. Our particularism—our
<i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>, our every-man-for-his-own-interests—has
little to do with true individualism, that
is, with the individual as consciously responsible for the
life from which he draws his breath and to which he
contributes his all.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_4">4</span>Politics do not need to be “purified.” This thought
is leading us astray. Politics must be vitalized by a
new method. “Representative government,” party organization,
majority rule, with all their excrescences,
are dead-wood. In their stead must appear the organization
of non-partisan groups for the begetting, the
bringing into being, of common ideas, a common purpose
and a collective will.</p>

<p class="c013">Government by the people must be more than the
phrase. We are told—The people should do this, the
people should do that, the people must be given control
of foreign policy, etc. etc. But all this is wholly useless
unless we provide the procedure within which the people
<em>can</em> do this or that. What does the “sovereign will” of
the people amount to unless it has some way of operating?
Or have we any “sovereign will?” There is little
yet that is practical in “practical politics.”</p>

<p class="c013">But method must not connote mechanics to any mind.
Many of us are more interested in the mechanism of life
than in anything else. We keep on putting pennies in
the slot from sheer delight in seeing something come out
at the other end. All this must change. Machines,
forms, images, moulds—all must be broken up and the
way prepared for our plastic life to find plastic expression.
The principle of democracy may be the underlying
unity of men, the method of democracy must be that
which allows the quickest response of our daily life to
the common faith of men.</p>

<p class="c013">Are we capable of a new method? Can the inventive
faculty of the American people be extended from mechanical
things to political organization? There is no
use denying that we are at a crisis in our history. Whether
that crisis is to abound in acute moments which will
largely wreck us, or whether we are going to be wise
enough to make the necessary political and social adjustments—that
<span class="pageno" id="Page_5">5</span>is the crucial question which faces
America to-day.</p>

<p class="c013">Representative government has failed. It has failed
because it was not a method by which men could govern
themselves. Direct government is now being proposed.
But direct government will never succeed if (1) it is
operated from within the party organization as at present,
or (2) if it consists merely in counting all the votes
in all the ballot-boxes. Ballot-box democracy is what
this book is written to oppose.</p>

<p class="c013">No government will be successful, no government will
endure, which does not rest on the individual, and no
government has yet found the individual. Up to the
present moment we have never seen the individual.
Yet the search for him has been the whole long striving
of our Anglo-Saxon history. We sought him through
the method of representation and failed to find him.
We sought to reach him by extending the suffrage to
every man and then to every woman and yet he eludes
us. Direct government now seeks the individual; but
as we have not found him by sending more men to the
ballot-box, so we shall not find him by sending men
more often to the ballot-box. Are our constitutional
conventions to sit and congratulate themselves on their
progressive ideas while they are condemning us to a
new form of our old particularism? The ballot-box!
How completely that has failed men, how completely
it will fail women. Direct government as at present
generally understood is a mere phantom of democracy.
Democracy is not a sum in addition. Democracy is not
brute numbers; it is a genuine union of true individuals.
The question before the American people to-day is—How
is that genuine union to be attained, how is the
true individual to be discovered? The party has always
ignored him; it wants merely a crowd, a preponderance
<span class="pageno" id="Page_6">6</span>of votes. The early reform associations had the same
aim. Both wanted voters not men. It makes little
difference whether we follow the boss or follow the good
government associations, this is all herd life—“following
the lead”—democracy means a wholly different
kind of existence. To follow means to murder the individual,
means to kill the only force in the world which
can make the Perfect Society—democracy depends upon
the creative power of every man.</p>

<p class="c013">We find the true man only through group organization.
The potentialities of the individual remain potentialities
until they are released by group life. Man
discovers his true nature, gains his true freedom only
through the group. Group organization must be the
new method of politics because the modes by which the
individual can be brought forth and made effective are
the modes of practical politics.</p>

<p class="c013">But who is the individual we have been seeking, who
is the individual we are to find within the group? Certainly
not the particularist individual. Every man to
count as one? That was once our slogan. Now we
have relegated it to a mechanical age. To-day we see
that every man must count for infinitely more than one
because he is not part of a whole, a cog in a machine, not
even an organ in an organism, but from one point of view
the whole itself. A man said to me the other day, “That
is not democracy, that is mysticism.” But why mysticism?
It is our daily life as lived from hour to hour.
We join with one group of men at work, with another
at play, another in our civic committee, another in our
art club. Man’s life is one of manifold relatings. His
vote at the polls must express not his particularist self,
but the whole complex of his related life, must express
as much of the whole as these multiple relations have
brought into existence for him, through him. I find
<span class="pageno" id="Page_7">7</span>my expression of the whole-idea, the whole-will, through
my group life. The group must always dictate the
modes of activity for the individual. We must put
clearly before us the true individual with his infinite
relations, expressing his infinite relations, as the centre
of politics, as the meaning of democracy. The first purpose
of genuine politics is to make the vote of every man
express the All at his special coign of outlook. In every
man is the potentiality of such expression. To call it
forth is the aim of all training, the end sought by all
modes of real living.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus group organization releases us from the domination
of mere numbers. Thus democracy transcends
time and space, it can never be understood except as a
spiritual force. Majority rule rests on numbers; democracy
rests on the well-grounded assumption that
society is neither a collection of units nor an organism
but a network of human relations. Democracy is not
worked out at the polling-booths; it is the bringing
forth of a genuine collective will, one to which every
single being must contribute the whole of his complex
life, as one which every single being must express the
whole of at one point. Thus the essence of democracy
is creating. The technique of democracy is group organization.
Many men despise politics because they see
that politics manipulate, but make nothing. If politics
are to be the highest activity of man, as they should be,
they must be clearly understood as creative.</p>

<p class="c013">What is there inherent in the group which gives it
creative power? The activity which produces the true
individual is at the same time interweaving him and
others into a real whole. A genuine whole has creative
force. Does this seem “mystical?” The power of our
corporations depends upon this capability of men to
interknit themselves into such genuine relations that
<span class="pageno" id="Page_8">8</span>a new personality is thereby evolved. This is the “real
personality” of modern legal theory. Are our company
directors and corporation lawyers usually mystics?</p>

<p class="c013">The seeing of self as, with all other selves, creating,
demands a new attitude and a new activity in man.
The fallacy of self-and-others fades away and there
is only self-in-and-through-others, only others so firmly
rooted in the self and so fruitfully growing there that
sundering is impossible. We must now enter upon modes
of living commensurate with this thought.</p>

<p class="c013">What American politics need to-day is positive principles.
We do not want to “regulate” our trusts, to
“restrain” our bosses. The measure of our progress is
never what we give up, but what we add. It may be
necessary to prune the garden, but we do not make a
pile of the dead branches and take our guests to see
them as evidence of the flourishing state of the garden.</p>

<p class="c013">The group organization movement means the substitution
of intention for accident, of organized purpose
for scattered desire. It rests on the solid assumption
that this is a man-made not a machine-made world, that
men and women are capable of constructing their own
life, and that not upon socialism or any rule or any
order or any plan or any utopia can we rest our hearts,
but only on the force of a united and creative citizenship.</p>

<p class="c013">We are asking for group organization in order to leap
at once from the region of theory, of which Americans
are so fond, to a practical scheme of living. We hear a
good deal of academic talk about “the functioning of
the social mind”; what does it all amount to? We
have no social mind yet, so we have no functioning of
the social mind. We want the directive force of consciously
integrated thought and will. All our ideas of
conscious self-determination lead us to a new method:
it is not merely that we must be allowed to govern ourselves,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_9">9</span>we must learn how to govern ourselves; it is not
only that we must be given “free speech,” we must
learn a speech that is free; we are not given rights, we
create rights; it is not only that we must invent machinery
to get a social will expressed, we must invent
machinery that will get a social will created.</p>

<p class="c013">Politics have one task only—to create. To create?
But what are politics to create? The state? The state
is now discredited in many quarters. The extremists
cry, “The state is dead, Down with the state.” And it
is by no means the extremists alone who are saying that
our present state has played us false and that therefore
we are justified in abolishing it. An increasing number
of men are thinking what one writer has put into words,
“We have passed from the <i lang="fr">régime</i> of the state to that of
the groups.” We must see if it is necessary to abolish
the state in order to get the advantage of the group.</p>

<p class="c013">Many trickles have gone to feed the stream of reaction
against the state: (1) an economic and industrial progress
which demands political recognition, which demands
that labor have a share in political power, (2) the
trend of philosophic thought towards pluralism and the
whole anti-intellectualistic tendency, (3) a progressive
legal theory of the “real personality” of groups, (4) a
growing antagonism to the state because it is supposed
to embody the crowd mind: our electorate is seen as a
crowd hypnotized by the party leaders, big words,
vague ideas and loose generalizations, (5) our life of
rapidly increasing intercourse has made us see our voluntary
associations as real and intimate, the state as something
remote and foreign to us, and (6) the increasing
alignment before the war of interests across state lines.</p>

<p class="c013">Every one of these reasons has force. Almost any
one of these reasons is sufficient to turn political theory
into new channels, seeking new currents of political life.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_10">10</span>Yet if our present state is taken from us and we are left
with our multiple group life, we are at once confronted
with many questions. Shall the new state be based
on occupational groups or neighborhood groups? Shall
they form a unifying or a plural state? Shall the group
or the individual be the basis of politics? The pluralist
gives us the group as the unit of politics, but most of
the group theories of politics are as entirely particularistic
as the old “individualistic” theories; our particularism
is merely transferred from the individual to the group.</p>

<p class="c013">Pluralism is the most vital trend in political thought
to-day, but there are many dangers lurking in pluralism
as at present understood. The pluralists apotheosize
the group; the average American, on the other hand, is
afraid of the group because he thinks of it chiefly in the
form of corporation and trust. Both make the same
mistake: both isolate the group. The group <em>in relation</em>
must be the object of our study if that study is to be
fruitful for politics. The pluralists have pointed out
diversity but no pluralist has yet answered satisfactorily
the question to which we must find an answer—What
is to be done with this diversity?</p>

<p class="c013">Some of the pluralists tend to lose the individual in
the group; others, to abandon the state for the group.
But the individual, the group, the state—they are all
there to be reckoned with—we cannot ignore or minimize
any one. The relation of individual to group,
of group to group, of individual and group to state—the
part that labor is to have in the new state—these
are the questions to the consideration of which this book
is directed.</p>

<p class="c013">This book makes no attempt, however, to construct
the new state, only to offer certain suggestions. But
before the details of a new order are even hinted at, we
must look far enough within for our practical suggestions
<span class="pageno" id="Page_11">11</span>to have value. In <a href="#pt_1" class="pginternal">Part I </a>we shall try to find the
fundamental principles which must underlie the new
state; in <a href="#pt_2" class="pginternal">Part II</a> we shall see how far they are expressed
in present political forms; in <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a> we shall consider
how they can be expressed. When they are fully expressed,
then we shall have the true Federal State, then
we shall see appearing the World State.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up this Introduction: The immediate problem
of political science is to discover the method of self-government.
Industrial democracy, the self-government
of smaller nations, the “sovereignty” of an International
League, our own political power,—how are these to
be attained? Not by being “granted” or “conferred.”
Genuine control, power, authority are always a growth.
Self-government is a psychological process. It is with
that psychological process that this book is largely
concerned. To free the way for that process is the task
of practical politics.</p>

<p class="c013">New surges of life are pounding at circumference and
centre; we must open the way for their entrance and
onflow. To-day the individual is submerged, smothered,
choked by the crowd fallacy, the herd theory. Free him
from these, release his energies, and he with all other
Freemen will work out quick, flexible, constantly changing
forms which shall respond sensitively to every need.</p>

<p class="c013">Under our present system, social and economic changes
necessary because of changing social and economic conditions
cannot be brought about. The first reform
needed in our political practice is to find some method
by which the government shall continuously represent
the people. No state can endure unless the political
bond is being forever forged anew. The organization of
men in small local groups gives opportunity for this
continuous political activity which ceaselessly creates
the state. Our government forms cannot be fossils from
<span class="pageno" id="Page_12">12</span>a dead age, but must be sensitive, mobile channels for
the quick and quickening soul of the individual to flow
to those larger confluences which finally bring forth the
state. Thus every man <em>is</em> the state at every moment,
whether in daily toil or social intercourse, and thus the
state itself, leading a myriad-membered life, is expressing
itself as truly in its humblest citizen as in its supreme
assembly.</p>

<p class="c013">The principle of modern politics, the principle of creative
citizenship, must predominantly and preëminently
body itself and be acknowledged by every human being.
Then will “practical politics” be for the first time
practical.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">A few words of explanation seem necessary. I have
no bibliography simply because any list of references
which I could give would necessarily be a partial one
since much of this book has come by wireless. Besides
all that is being written definitely of a new state, the air
to-day is full of the tentative, the partial, the fragmentary
thought, the isolated flash of insight from some genius,
all of which is being turned to the solution of those problems
which, from our waking to our sleeping, face us
with their urgent demand. I am here trying to show
the need of a wide and systematic study of these problems,
not pretending to be able to solve them. Much interweaving
of thought will be necessary before the form of
the new state appears to us.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, I have not traced the strands of thought
which have led us to our present ideas. That does not
mean that I do not recognize the slow building up of
these ideas or all our indebtedness to the thinkers of
the past. I speak of principles as “new” which we all
know were familiar to Aristotle or Kant and are new
to-day only in their application.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_13">13</span>The word new is so much used in the present day—New
Freedom, New Democracy, New Society etc.—that
it is perhaps well for us to remind ourselves what
we mean by this word. We are using the word new partly
in reaction to the selfishness of the nineteenth century,
in reaction to a world which has culminated in this
war, but more especially in the sense of the live, the
real, in contrast to the inert, the dead. It is not a time
distinction—the “new” (the vital) claims fellowship
with all that is “new” (vital) in the past. When we
speak of the “New” Freedom we mean all the reality
and truth which have accumulated in all the conceptions
of freedom up to the present moment. The “New”
Society is the “Perfect Society.” The “New” Life
is the Vita Nuova, “when spring came to the heart of
Italy.”</p>

<p class="c013">It is I hope unnecessary to explain that in my frequent
use of the term “the new psychology,” I am not referring
to any definitely formulated body of thought; there
are no writers who are expounding the new psychology
as such. By the “new psychology” I mean something
now in the making: I mean partly that group psychology
which is receiving more attention and gaining more
influence every day, and partly I mean simply that feeling
out for a new conception of <em>modes of association</em>
which we see in law, economics, ethics, politics, and
indeed in every department of thought. It is a short
way of saying that we are now looking at things not as
entities but in relation. When our modern jurists
speak of the growing emphasis upon relation rather
than upon contract—they are speaking of the “new
psychology.”</p>

<p class="c013">There is, however, another and very important aspect
of contemporary psychology closely connected with
this one of relation. We are to-day seeking to understand
<span class="pageno" id="Page_14">14</span>the sources of human motives,<a id="r1"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f1"><sup>[1]</sup></a> and then to free
their channels so that these elemental springs of human
activity (the fundamental instincts of man) shall not
be dammed but flow forth in normal fashion, for normal
man is constructive. A few years ago, for instance, we
were satisfied merely to condemn sabotage and repudiation
of law; now we are trying to discover the
cause of this deviation from the normal in order to see
if it can be removed. This necessity for the understanding
of the nature and vital needs of men has not
yet reached full self-consciousness, but appears in diverse
forms: as the investigation of the I. W. W., as a study
of “Human Nature in Politics,” an examination of “The
Great Society,” as child-study, as Y. M. C. A. efforts
to nourish all sides of men at the front, etc. etc. To-day
the new psychology speaks in many voices. Soon we
may hope for some unified formulation of all this varied
and scattered utterance. Soon we may hope also that
the connection will be made between this aspect of contemporary
psychology and the group psychology upon
which this book is mainly founded.</p>

<p class="c013">I wish to add my reason for giving quotations from
many writers whose names I have not cited. This
has been chiefly because often the sentence or phrase
quoted taken away from all context does not give a fair
idea of the writer’s complete thought, and I have used
it not in an attempt to refute these writers, but merely
as illustrating certain tendencies to which we are all
more or less subject at present. Many of the writers
with whom I have disagreed in some particular have
been in the main my teachers and guides.</p>

<p class="c013">A certain amount of repetition has seemed necessary
in order to look at the same idea from a number of angles
and to make different applications of the same principle.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_15">15</span>From a few friends I have received much help. My
thanks are especially due to my teacher and counsellor
of many years, Miss Anna Boynton Thompson, who
went over the first copy of the manuscript with me and
gave to it the most careful consideration and criticism,
offering constantly invaluable suggestion and advice;
to her unflagging and most generous help the final form
owes more than I can quite express. The inception of
the book is due to my friends and fellow-workers, Mrs.
Louis Brandeis, Mrs. Richard Cabot and Mr. Arthur
Woodworth, as also much of its thought to the stimulus
of “group” discussion with them. Mrs. Charles W.
Mixter, Professor Albert Bushnell Hart, Professor H. A.
Overstreet, Professor W. Ernest Hocking and Mr. Roscoe
Pound have read the manuscript in full or in part and
have given me many valuable suggestions. I owe to
my friend, Miss Isobel L. Briggs, daily help, advice and
encouragement in the development of the book, and the
revision of manuscript and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_16">16</span>proofs.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_17">17</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="pt_1"><span class="sc">Part I</span><br/> <br/>THE GROUP PRINCIPLE</h2>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_18">18</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_1">I<br/> <br/>THE GROUP AND THE NEW PSYCHOLOGY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<div><span class="pageno" id="Page_19">19</span></div>
<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">
POLITICS must have a technique based on an
understanding of the laws of association, that
is, based on a new and progressive social psychology.
Politics alone should not escape all the modern
tendency of scientific method, of analysis, of efficiency
engineering. The study of democracy has been based
largely on the study of institutions; it should be based
on the study of how men behave together. We have to
deal, not with institutions, or any mechanical thing, or
with abstract ideas, or “man,” or anything but just
men, ordinary men. The importance of the new psychology
is that it acknowledges man as the centre and
shaper of his universe. In his nature all institutions are
latent and perforce must be adapted to this nature.
Man not things must be the starting point of the future.</p>

<p class="c013">But man in association, for no man lives to himself.
And we must understand further that the laws of association
are the laws of the group. We have long been
trying to understand the relation of the individual to
society; we are only just beginning to see that there
is no “individual,” that there is no “society.” It is
not strange, therefore, that our efforts have gone astray,
that our thinking yields small returns for politics. The
old psychology was based on the isolated individual as
the unit, on the assumption that a man thinks, feels and
judges independently. Now that we know that there
is no such thing as a separate ego, that individuals are
created by reciprocal interplay, our whole study of
psychology is being transformed.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_20">20</span>Likewise there is no “society” thought of vaguely as
the mass of people we see around us. I am always in
relation not to “society” but to some concrete group.
When do we ever as a matter of fact think of “society”?
Are we not always thinking of our part in our board of
directors or college faculty, in the dinner party last
night,<a id="r2"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f2"><sup>[2]</sup></a> in our football team, our club, our political party,
our trade-union, our church? Practically “society” is
for every one of us a number of groups. The recognition
of this constitutes a new step in sociology analogous
to the contribution William James made in regard to
the individual. James brought to popular recognition
the truth that since man is a complex of experiences
there are many selves in each one. So society as a complex
of groups includes many social minds. The craving
we have for union is satisfied by group life, groups and
groups, groups ever widening, ever unifying, but always
groups. We sometimes say that man is spiritually dependent
upon society; what we are referring to is his
psychic relation to his groups. The vital relation of the
individual to the world is through his groups; they are
the potent factors in shaping our lives.</p>

<p class="c013">Hence social psychology cannot be the application
of the old individual psychology to a number of people.
A few years ago I went to a lecture on “Social <a id="tn020"/>Psychology,”
as the subject was announced. Not a word
was said except on the nervous systems and other aspects
of individual psychology, but at the last moment the
lecturer told us that had there been time he would have
applied what he had said to social conditions! It reminded
me of our old acquaintance Silas Wegg who,
when he wanted to know something about Chinese metaphysics,
first looked up China in the encyclopedia and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_21">21</span>then metaphysics and put them together. The new
psychology must take people with their inheritance,
their “tendencies,” their environment, and then focus
its attention on their interrelatings. The most careful
laboratory work must be done to discover the conditions
which make these interrelatings possible, which make
these interrelatings fruitful.</p>

<p class="c013">Some writers make “socially minded” tendencies on
the part of individuals the subject of social psychology,
but such tendencies belong still to the field of individual
psychology. A social action is not an individual initiative
with social application.<a id="r3"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f3"><sup>[3]</sup></a> Neither is social psychology
the determination of how far social factors determine
the individual consciousness. Social psychology must
concern itself primarily with the <em>interaction</em> of minds.</p>

<p class="c013">Early psychology was based on the study of the individual;
early sociology was based on the study of society.
But there is no such thing as the “individual,” there is
no such thing as “society”; there is only the group and
the group-unit—the social individual. Social psychology
must begin with an intensive study of the group,
of the selective processes which go on within it, the
differentiated reactions, the likenesses and unlikenesses,
and the spiritual energy which unites them.</p>

<p class="c013">The acceptance and the living of the new psychology
will do away with all the progeny of particularistic psychology:
consent of the governed, majority rule, external
leadership, industrial wars, national wars etc. From
the analysis of the group must come an understanding of
collective thought and collective feeling, of the common
will and concerted activity, of the true nature of freedom,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_22">22</span>the illusion of self-and-others, the essential unity
of men, the real meaning of patriotism, and the whole
secret of progress and of life as a genuine interpenetration
which produces true community.</p>

<p class="c013">All thinking men are demanding a new state. The
question is—What form shall that state take? No one
of us will be able to give an answer until we have studied
men in association and have discovered the laws of
association. This has not been done yet, but already
we can see that a political science which is not based on
a knowledge of the laws of association gained by a study
of the group will soon seem the crudest kind of quackery.
Syndicalism, in reaction to the so-called “metaphysical”
foundation of politics, is based on “objective rights,” on
function, on its conception of modes of association which
shall emphasize the object of the associated and not the
relation of the associated to one another. The new psychology
goes a step further and sees these as one, but
how can any of these things be discussed abstractly?
Must we not first study men in association? Young
men in the hum of actual life, practical politicians, the
members of constitutional conventions, labor leaders—all
these must base their work on the principles of group
psychology.</p>

<p class="c013">The fundamental reason for the study of group psychology
is that no one can give us democracy, we must
learn democracy. To be a democrat is not to decide on
a certain form of human association, it is to learn how
to live with other men. The whole labor movement is
being kept back by people not knowing how to live together
much more than by any deliberate refusal to
grant justice. The trouble with syndicalism is that its
success depends on group action and we know almost
nothing of the laws of the group.</p>

<p class="c013">I have used group in this book with the meaning of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_23">23</span>men associating
under the law of interpenetration as
opposed to the law of the crowd—suggestion and imitation.
This may be considered an arbitrary definition,
but of course I do not care about the names, I only want
to emphasize the fact that men meet under two different
sets of laws. Social psychology may include both group
psychology and crowd psychology, but of these two
group psychology is much the more important. For a
good many years now we have been dominated by the
crowd school, by the school which taught that people
met together are governed by suggestion and imitation,
and less notice has been taken of all the interplay which
is the real social process that we have in a group but not
in a crowd. How men behave in crowds, and the relation
of the crowd conception of politics to democracy,
will be considered in later chapters. While I recognize
that men are more often at present under the laws of
the crowd than of the group, I believe that progress
depends on the group, and, therefore, that the group
should be the basis of a progressive social psychology.
The group process contains the secret of collective life,
it is the key to democracy, it is the master lesson for
every individual to learn, it is our chief hope for the
political, the social, the international life of the future.<a id="r4"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f4"><sup>[4]</sup></a></p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_24">24</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_2">II<br/> <br/>THE GROUP PROCESS: THE COLLECTIVE IDEA</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_4_0_5 c012">LET us begin at once to consider the group process.
Perhaps the most familiar example of the evolving
of a group idea is a committee meeting. The
object of a committee meeting is first of all to create
a common idea. I do not go to a committee meeting
merely to give my own ideas. If that were all, I might
write my fellow-members a letter. But neither do I go
to learn other people’s ideas. If that were all, I might
ask each to write me a letter. I go to a committee
meeting in order that all together we may create a
group idea, an idea which will be better than any one
of our ideas alone, moreover which will be better than
all of our ideas added together. For this group idea
will not be produced by any process of addition, but
by the interpenetration of us all. This subtle psychic
process by which the resulting idea shapes itself is the
process we want to study.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us imagine that you, I, A, B and C are in conference.
Now what from our observation of groups will
take place? Will you say something, and then I add a
little something, and then A, and B, and C, until we
have together built up, brick-wise, an idea, constructed
some plan of action? Never. A has one idea, B another,
C’s idea is something different from either, and so on,
but we cannot add all these ideas to find the group idea.
They will not add any more than apples and chairs will
add. But we gradually find that our problem can be
<span class="pageno" id="Page_25">25</span>solved, not indeed by mechanical aggregation, but by
the subtle process of the intermingling of all the different
ideas of the group. A says something. Thereupon
a thought arises in B’s mind. Is it B’s idea or
A’s? Neither. It is a mingling of the two. We find
that A’s idea, after having been presented to B and returned
to A, has become slightly, or largely, different
from what it was originally. In like manner it is affected
by C and so on. But in the same way B’s idea has been
affected by all the others, and not only does A’s idea feel
the modifying influence of each of the others, but A’s
ideas are affected by B’s relation to all the others, and
A’s plus B’s are affected by all the others individually
and collectively, and so on and on until the common
idea springs into being.</p>

<p class="c013">We find in the end that it is not a question of my
idea being supplemented by yours, but that there has
been evolved a composite idea. But by the time we have
reached this point we have become tremendously civilized
people, for we have learned one of the most important
lessons of life: we have learned to do that most
wonderful thing, to say “I” representing a whole instead
of “I” representing one of our separate selves. The
course of action decided upon is what we all together
want, and I see that it is better than what I had wanted
alone. It is what <em>I</em> now want. We have all experienced
this at committee meetings or conferences.</p>

<p class="c013">We see therefore that we cannot view the content
of the collective mind as a holiday procession, one part
after another passing before our mental eyes; every part
is bound up with every other part, every tendency is
conditioned by every other tendency. It is like a game
of tennis. A serves the ball to B. B returns the serve
but his play is influenced as largely by the way the ball
has been served to him as it is by his own method of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_26">26</span>return. A sends the ball back to B, but his return is
made up of his own play plus the way in which the
ball has been played to him by B plus his own original
serve. Thus in the end does action and reaction become
inextricably bound up together.</p>

<p class="c013">I have described briefly the group process. Let us
consider what is required of the individual in order that
the group idea shall be produced. First and foremost
each is to do his part. But just here we have to get rid
of some rather antiquated notions. The individual is
not to facilitate agreement by courteously (!) waiving
his own point of view. That is just a way of shirking.
Nor may I say, “Others are able to plan this better than
I.” Such an attitude is the result either of laziness or
of a misconception. There are probably many present
at the conference who could make wiser plans than I
alone, but that is not the point, we have come together
each to give something. I must not subordinate myself,
I must affirm myself and give my full positive value to
that meeting.</p>

<p class="c013">And as the psychic coherence of the group can be
obtained only by the full contribution of every member,
so we see that a readiness to compromise must be no
part of the individual’s attitude. Just so far as people
think that the basis of working together is compromise
or concession, just so far they do not understand the
first principles of working together. Such people think
that when they have reached an appreciation of the
necessity of compromise they have reached a high plane
of social development; they conceive themselves as
nobly willing to sacrifice part of their desire, part of
their idea, part of their will, in order to secure the undoubted
benefit of concerted action. But compromise
is still on the same plane as fighting. War will continue—between
capital and labor, between nation and nation—until
<span class="pageno" id="Page_27">27</span>we relinquish the ideas of compromise and
concession.<a id="r5"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f5"><sup>[5]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But at the same time that we offer fully what we have
to give, we must be eager for what all others have to
give. If I ought not to go to my group feeling that I
must give up my own ideas in order to accept the opinions
of others, neither ought I to go to force my ideas
upon others. The “harmony” that comes from the
domination of one man is not the kind we want. At a
board of directors’ meeting once Mr. E. H. Harriman
said, “Gentlemen, we must have coöperation. I insist
upon it.” They “coöperated” and all his motions were
put through. At the end of the meeting some one asked
Mr. Harriman to define coöperation. “Oh, that’s simple,”
he said, “do as I say and do it damned quick.”</p>

<p class="c013">There are many people who conscientiously go to their
group thinking it their duty to impose their ideas upon
others, but the time is coming soon when we are going
to see that we have no more right to get our own way
by persuading people than by bullying or bribing them.
To take our full share in the synthesis is all that is
legitimate.<a id="r6"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f6"><sup>[6]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Thus the majority idea is not the group idea. Suppose
I belong to a committee composed of five: of
A, B, C, D and myself. According to the old theory of
my duties as a committee member I might say, “A
<span class="pageno" id="Page_28">28</span>agrees with me, if I can get B to agree with me that
will make a majority and I can carry my point.” That
is, we five can then present this idea to the world as our
group idea. But this is not a group idea, although it
may be the best substitute we can get for the moment.
To a genuine group idea every man must contribute
what is in him to contribute. Thus even the passing
of a unanimous vote by a group of five does not prove
the existence of a group idea if two or three (or even one)
out of indifference or laziness or prejudice, or shut-upness,
or a misconception of their function, have not added
their individual thought to the creation of the group
thought. No member of a group which is to create can
be passive. All must be active and constructively active.</p>

<p class="c013">It is not, however, to be constructively active merely
to add a share: it must be a share which is related to and
bound up with every other share. And it must be given
in such a way that it fits in with what others are giving.
Some one said to me the other day, “Don’t you think
Mr. X talks better than anyone else in Boston?” Well
the fact is that Mr. X talks so well that I can never talk
with him. Everything he says has such a ring of finality,
is such a rounding up of the whole question, that it
leaves nothing more to be said on the subject. This is
particularly the kind of thing to be avoided in a committee
meeting or conference.</p>

<p class="c013">There are many people, moreover, who want to score,
to be brilliant, rather than to find agreement. Others
come prepared with what they are going to say and
either this has often been said long before they get a
chance to speak, or, in any case, it allows no give-and-take,
so they contribute nothing; when we really learn
the process our ideas will be struck out by the interplay.
To compare notes on what we have thought separately
is not to think together.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_29">29</span>I asked a man once to join a committee I was organizing
and he replied that he would be very glad to come
and give his advice. I didn’t want him—and didn’t
have him. I asked another man and he said he would
like very much to come and learn but that he couldn’t
contribute anything. I didn’t have him either—I
hadn’t a school. Probably the last man thought he
was being modest and, therefore, estimable. But what
I wanted was to get a group of people who would deliberately
work out a thing together. I should have
liked very much to have the man who felt that he had
advice to give if he had had also what we are now learning
to call the social attitude, that is, that of a man
willing to take his place in the group, no less and no
more. This definition of social attitude is very different
from our old one—the willingness to give; my
friend who wanted to come and give advice had that,
but that is a crude position compared with the one we
are now advocating.</p>

<p class="c013">It is clear then that we do not go to our group—trade-union,
city council, college faculty—to be passive
and learn, and we do not go to push through something
we have already decided we want. Each must discover
and contribute that which distinguishes him from others,
his difference. The only use for my difference is to join
it with other differences. The unifying of opposites is
the eternal process.<a id="r7"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f7"><sup>[7]</sup></a> We must have an imagination
which will leap from the particular to the universal.
Our joy, our satisfaction, must always be in the more
inclusive aspect of our problem.</p>

<p class="c013">We can test our group in this way: do we come
together to register the results of individual thought,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_30">30</span>to compare the results of individual thought in order to
make selections therefrom, or do we come together to
create a common idea? Whenever we have a real group
something new <em>is</em> actually created. We can now see
therefore that the object of group life is not to find the
best individual thought, but the collective thought. A
committee meeting isn’t like a prize show aimed at
calling out the best each can possibly produce and then
the prize (the vote) awarded to the best of all these
individual opinions. The object of a conference is not
to get at a lot of different ideas, as is often thought, but
just the opposite—to get at one idea. There is nothing
rigid or fixed about thoughts, they are entirely plastic,
and ready to yield themselves completely to their
master—the group spirit.<a id="r8"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f8"><sup>[8]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">I have given some of the conditions necessary for
collective thinking. In every governing board—city
councils, hospital and library trustees, the boards of
colleges and churches, in business and industry, in directors’
meetings—no device should be neglected which
will help to produce joint rather than individual thinking.
But no one has yet given us a scientific analysis of
the conditions necessary or how to fulfil them. We
do not yet know, for instance, the best number to bring
out the group idea, the number, that is, which will bring
out as many differences as possible and yet form a whole
or group. We cannot guess at it but only get it through
scientific experiments. Much laboratory work has to
be done. The numbers on Boards of Education, on
Governors’ Commissions, should be determined by psychological
as well as by political reasons.</p>

<p class="c013">Again it is said that private sessions are undemocratic.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_31">31</span>If they contribute to true collective thinking (instead of
efforts to dazzle the gallery), then, in so far, they are
democratic, for there is nothing in the world so democratic
as the production of a genuine group will.</p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Gladstone must have appreciated the necessity
of making conditions favorable to joint thinking, for I
have been told that at important meetings of the Cabinet
he planned beforehand where each member should
sit.</p>

<p class="c013">The members of a group are reciprocally conditioning
forces none of which acts as it would act if any one
member were different or absent. You can often see
this in a board of directors: if one director leaves the
room, every man becomes slightly different.</p>

<p class="c013">When the conditions for collective thinking are more
or less fulfilled, then the expansion of life will begin.
Through my group I learn the secret of wholeness.<a id="r9"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f9"><sup>[9]</sup></a> The
inspiration of the group is proportionate to the degree
in which we do actually identify ourselves with the
whole and think that <em>we</em> are doing this, not Mr. A and
Mr. B and I, but we, the united we, the singular not the
plural pronoun we. (We shall have to write a new
grammar to meet the needs of the times, as non-Euclidean
geometries are now being published.) Then we
shall no longer have a feeling of individual triumph, but
feel only elation that the group has accomplished something.
Much of the evil of our political and social life
comes from the fact that we crave personal recognition
and personal satisfaction; as soon as our greatest satisfaction
is group satisfaction, many of our present problems
will disappear. When one thinks of one’s self as
part of a group, it means keener moral perceptions,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_32">32</span>greater strength of will, more enthusiasm and zest in
life. We shall enjoy living the social life when we understand
it; the things which we do and achieve together
will give us much greater happiness than the things we
do and achieve by ourselves. It has been asked what,
in peace, is going to take the place of those songs men
sing as they march to battle which at the same time
thrill and unite them. The songs which the hearts of
men will sing as they go forward in life with one desire—the
song of the common will, the social will of man.</p>

<p class="c013">Men descend to meet? This is not my experience.
The <i lang="fr">laissez-aller</i> which people allow themselves when
alone disappears when they meet. Then they pull themselves
together and give one another of their best. We
see this again and again. Sometimes the ideal of the
group stands quite visibly before us as one which none
of us is quite living up to by himself. We feel it there,
an impalpable, substantial thing in our midst. It raises
us to the n<sup>th</sup> power of action, it fires our minds and glows
in our hearts and fulfils and actuates itself no less, but
rather on this very account, because it has been generated
only by our being together.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_33">33</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_3">III<br/> <br/>THE GROUP PROCESS: THE COLLECTIVE IDEA<br/>(CONTINUED)</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">WHAT then is the essence of the group process
by which are evolved the collective thought
and the collective will? It is an acting and
reacting, a single and identical process which brings out
differences and integrates them into a unity. The complex
reciprocal action, the intricate interweavings of the
members of the group, is the social process.</p>

<p class="c013">We see now that the process of the many becoming
one is not a metaphysical or mystical idea; psychological
analysis shows us how we can at the same moment be
the self and the other, it shows how we can be forever
apart and forever united. It is by the group process
that the transfiguration of the external into the spiritual
takes place, that is, that what seems a series becomes
a whole. The essence of society is difference,
related difference. “Give me your difference” is the
cry of society to-day to every man.<a id="r10"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f10"><sup>[10]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But the older sociology made the social mind the consciousness
of likeness. This likeness was accounted for
by two theories chiefly: the imitation theory and the
like-response-to-like-stimuli theory. It is necessary to
consider these briefly, for they have been gnawing at
the roots of all our political life.</p>

<p class="c013">To say that the social process is that merely of the
spread of similarities is to ignore the real nature of the
collective thought, the collective will. Individual ideas
<span class="pageno" id="Page_34">34</span>do not become social ideas when communicated. The
difference between them is one of kind. A collective
thought is one evolved by a collective process. The essential
feature of a common thought is not that it is held
in common but that it has been produced in common.</p>

<p class="c013">Likewise if every member of a group has the same
thought, that is not a group idea: when all respond
simultaneously to the same stimulus, it cannot be assumed
that this is in obedience to a collective will<a id="tn034"/>.
When all the men in a street run round the corner to
see a procession, it is not because they are moved by a
collective thought.</p>

<p class="c013">Imitation indeed has a place in the collective life, it
is one of the various means of coadaptation between
men, but it is only a part and a part which has been
fatally overemphasized.<a id="r11"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f11"><sup>[11]</sup></a> It is one of the fruits of particularism.
“Imitation” has been made the bridge to
span the gap between the individual and society, but
we see now that there is no gap, therefore no bridge is
necessary.</p>

<p class="c013">The core of the social process is not likeness, but the
harmonizing of difference through interpenetration.<a id="r12"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f12"><sup>[12]</sup></a>
But to be more accurate, similarity and difference can
not be opposed in this external way—they have a vital
connection. Similarities and differences make up the
differentiated reactions of the group; that is what constitutes
<span class="pageno" id="Page_35">35</span>their importance, not their likeness or unlikeness
as such. I react to a stimulus: that reaction may
represent a likeness or an unlikeness. Society is the
unity of these differentiated reactions. In other words
the process is not that merely of accepting or rejecting,
it is bound up in the interknitting. In that continuous
coördinating which constitutes the social process both
similarity and difference have a place. Unity is brought
about by the reciprocal adaptings of the reactions of
individuals, and this reciprocal adapting is based on
both agreement and difference.</p>

<p class="c013">To push our analysis a little further, we must distinguish
between the given similarity and the achieved
similarity. The common at any moment is always the
given: it has come from heredity, biological influences,
suggestion and imitation, and the previous workings of
the law of interpenetration. All the accumulated effect
of these is seen in our habits of thinking, our modes of
living. But we cannot rest in the common. The surge
of life sweeps through the given similarity, the common
ground, and breaks it up into a thousand differences.
This tumultuous, irresistible flow of life is our existence:
the unity, the common, is but for an instant, it flows on
to new differings which adjust themselves anew in fuller,
more varied, richer synthesis. The moment when similarity
achieves itself as a composite of working, seething
forces, it throws out its myriad new differings. The torrent
flows into a pool, works, ferments, and then rushes
forth until all is again gathered into the new pool of its
own unifying.</p>

<p class="c013">This is the process of evolution. Social progress is to
be sure coadapting, but coadapting means always that
the fresh unity becomes the pole of a fresh difference
leading to again new unities which lead to broader and
broader fields of activity.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_36">36</span>Thus no one of course undertakes to deny the obvious
fact that in order to have a society a certain amount of
similarity must exist. In one sense society rests on likeness:
the likeness between men is deeper than their
difference. We could not have an enemy unless there
was much in common between us. With my friend all
the aims that we share unite us. In a given society the
members have the same interests, the same ends, in
the main, and seek a common fulfilment. Differences
are always grounded in an underlying similarity. But
all this kind of “similarity” isn’t worth mentioning because
we <em>have</em> it. The very fact that it is common to us
all condemns it from the point of view of progress. Progress
does not depend upon the similarity which we <em>find</em>
but upon the similarity which we <em>achieve</em>.</p>

<p class="c013">The new psychology, therefore, gives us individual
responsibility as the central fact of life because it demands
that we grow our own like-mindedness. To-day
we are basing all our hopes not on the given likeness
but the created unity. To rest in the given likeness
would be to annihilate social progress. The organization
of industry and the settlement of international
relations must come under the domination of this law.
The Allies are fighting to-day with one impulse, one
desire, one aim, but at the peace table many differences
will arise between them. The progress of the whole
world at that moment will depend upon the “similarity”
we can create. This “similarity” will consist of all
we now hold in common and also, of the utmost importance
for the continuance of civilization, upon our ability
to unify our differences. If we go to that peace table with
the idea that the new world is to be based on that community
of interest and aim which now animates us, the
disillusion will be great, the result an overwhelming failure.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us henceforth, therefore, use the word unifying
<span class="pageno" id="Page_37">37</span>instead of similarity to represent the basis of association.
And let us clearly understand that unifying is a
process involving the continuous activity of every man.
To await “variation-giving” individuals would be to
make life a mere chance. We cannot wait for new ideas
to appear among us, we must ourselves produce them.
This makes possible the endless creation of new social
values. The old like-minded theory is too fortuitous,
too passive and too negative to attract us; creating is
the divine adventure.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us imagine a group of people whom we know. If
we find the life of that group consisting chiefly of imitation,
we see that it involves no activity of the real self
but crushes and smothers it. Imitation condemns the
human race. Even if up to the present moment imitation
has been a large factor in man’s development, from
this moment on such a smothering of all the forces of
life must cease.</p>

<p class="c013">If we have, however, among this group “like-response,”
that is if there spring up like thoughts and
feelings, we find a more dignified and worthy life—fellowship
claims us with all its joys and its enlargement
of our single self. But there is no progress here.
We give ourselves up to the passive enjoyment of that
already existing. We have found our kindred and it
comforts us. How much greater enhancement comes
from that life foreshadowed by the new psychology
where each one is to go forth from his group a richer
being because each one has taken and put into its right
membership all the vital differences of all the others.
The like-mindedness which the new psychology demands
is the like-mindedness which is brought about by the
enlargement of each by the inflowing of every other one.
Then I go forth a new creature. But to what do I go
forth? Always to a new group, a new “society.” There
<span class="pageno" id="Page_38">38</span>is no end to this process. A new being springs forth
from every fresh contact. My nature opens and opens
to thousands of new influences. I feel countless new
births. Such is the glory of our common every-day life.</p>

<p class="c013">Imitation is for the shirkers, like-mindedness for the
comfort lovers, unifying for the creators.</p>

<p class="c013">The lesson of the new psychology is then: Never
settle down within the theory you have chosen, the
cause you have embraced; know that another theory,
another cause exists, and seek that. The enhancement
of life is not for the comfort-lover. As soon as you
succeed—real success means something arising to overthrow
your security.</p>

<p class="c013">In all the discussion of “similarity” too much importance
has been put upon analogies from the animal
world.<a id="r13"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f13"><sup>[13]</sup></a> We are told, for instance, and important conclusions
are drawn in regard to human society, that the
gregarious instinct of any animal receives satisfaction
only through the presence of animals similar to itself,
and that the closer the similarity the greater the satisfaction.
True certainly for animals, but it is this fact
which keeps them mere animals. As far as the irrational
elements of life give way to the rational, interpenetration
becomes the law of association. Man’s biological
inheritance is not his only life. And the progress of man
means that this inheritance shall occupy a less and less
important place relatively.</p>

<p class="c013">It has been necessary to consider the similarity theory,
I have said, because it has eaten its way into all our
thought.<a id="r14"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f14"><sup>[14]</sup></a> Many people to-day seem to think that progress
<span class="pageno" id="Page_39">39</span>depends upon a number of people all speaking
loudly together. The other day a woman said to me
that she didn’t like the <cite>Survey</cite> because it has on one page
a letter from a conservative New York banker and on
another some radical proposal for the reconstruction of
society; she said she preferred a paper which took one
idea and hammered away on that. This is poor psychology.
It is the same reasoning which makes people
think that certain kindred souls should come together,
and then by a certain intensified thinking and living
together some noble product will emerge for the benefit
of the world. Such association is based on a wrong
principle. However various the reasons given for the
non-success of such experiments as Brook Farm, certain
religious associations, and certain artistic and literary
groups who have tried to live together, the truth is
that most of them have died simply of non-nutrition.
The bond created had not within it the variety which
the human soul needs for its nourishment.</p>

<p class="c013">Unity, not uniformity, must be our aim. We attain
unity only through variety. Differences must be integrated,
not annihilated, nor absorbed.<a id="r15"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f15"><sup>[15]</sup></a> Anarchy means
unorganized, unrelated difference; coördinated, unified
difference belongs to our ideal of a perfect social order.
We don’t want to avoid our adversary but to “agree with
him quickly”; we must, however, learn the technique
of agreeing. As long as we think of difference as that
<span class="pageno" id="Page_40">40</span>which divides us, we shall dislike it; when we think of it
as that which unites us, we shall cherish it. Instead of
shutting out what is different, we should welcome it
because it is different and through its difference will
make a richer content of life. The ignoring of differences
is the most fatal mistake in politics or industry or international
life: every difference that is swept up into a
bigger conception feeds and enriches society; every
difference which is ignored feeds <em>on</em> society and eventually
corrupts it.</p>

<p class="c013">Heterogeneity, not homogeneity, I repeat, makes
unity. Indeed as we go from groups of the lower types
to groups of the higher types, we go from those with
many resemblances to those with more and more striking
differences. The higher the degree of social organization
the more it is based on a very wide diversity
among its members. The people who think that London
is the most civilized spot in the world give as evidence
that it is the only city in which you can eat a
bun on a street corner without being noticed. In London,
in other words, difference is expected of us. In Boston
you cannot eat a bun on the street corner, at least not
without unpleasant consequences.</p>

<p class="c013">Give <em>your</em> difference, welcome <em>my</em> difference, unify <em>all</em>
difference in the larger whole—such is the law of growth.
The unifying of difference is the eternal process of life—the
creative synthesis, the highest act of creation,
the at-onement. The implications of this conception
when we come to define democracy are profound.</p>

<p class="c013">And throughout our participation in the group process
we must be ever on our guard that we do not confuse
differences and antagonisms, that diversity does
not arouse hostility. Suppose a friend says something
with which I do not agree. It may be that instantly
I feel antagonistic, feel as if we were on opposite
<span class="pageno" id="Page_41">41</span>sides, and my emotions are at once tinged with some
of the enmity which being on opposite sides usually
brings. Our relations become slightly strained, we
change the subject as soon as possible, etc. But suppose
we were really civilized beings, then we should think:
“How interesting this is, this idea has evidently a larger
content than I realized; if my friend and I can unify
this material, we shall separate with a larger idea than
either of us had before.” If my friend and I are always
trying to find the things upon which we agree, what is
the use of our meeting? Because the consciousness of
agreement makes us happy? It is a shallow happiness,
only felt by people too superficial or too shut-up or too
vain to feel that richer joy which comes from having
taken part in an act of creation—created a new thought
by the uniting of differences. A friendship based on
likenesses and agreements alone is a superficial matter
enough. The deep and lasting friendship is one capable
of recognizing and dealing with all the fundamental differences
that must exist between any two individuals,
one capable therefore of such an enrichment of our
personalities that together we shall mount to new heights
of understanding and endeavor. Some one ought to
write an essay on the dangers to the soul of congeniality.
Pleasant little glows of feeling can never be fanned into
the fire which becomes the driving force of progress.</p>

<p class="c013">In trying to explain the social process I may have
seemed to over emphasize difference as difference. Difference
as difference is non-existent. There is only
difference which carries within itself the power of unifying.
It is this latent power which we must forever and
ever call forth. Difference in itself is not a vital force,
but what accompanies it is—the unifying spirit.</p>

<p class="c013">Throughout my description of the group process I
have taken committee-meetings, conferences etc. for
<span class="pageno" id="Page_42">42</span>illustration, but really the object of every associating
with others, of every conversation with friends, in fact,
should be to try to bring out a bigger thought than any
one alone could contribute. How different our dinner
parties would be if we could do this. And I mean without
too labored an effort, but merely by recognizing
certain elementary rules of the game. Creation is always
possible when people meet; this is the wonderful interest
of life. But it depends upon us so to manage our meetings
that there shall be some result, not just a frittering
away of energy, unguided because not understood. All
our private life is to be public life. This does not mean
that we cannot sit with a friend by our fireside; it does
mean that, private and gay as that hour may be, at
the same time that very intimacy and lightness must in
its way be serving the common cause, not in any fanciful
sense, but because there is always the consciousness of
my most private concerns as tributary to the larger life
of men. But words are misleading: I do not mean that
we are always to be thinking about it—it must be
such an abiding sense that we never think of it.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus the new psychology teaches us that the core of
the group process is creating. The essential value of
the new psychology is that it carries enfolded within
it the obligation upon every man to live the New Life.
In no other system of thought has the Command been
so clear, so insistent, so compelling. Every individual
is necessary to the whole. On the other hand, every
member participates in that power of a whole which
is so much greater than the addition of its separate
forces. The increased strength which comes to me when
I work with others is not a numerical thing, is not because
I feel that ten of us have ten times the strength
of one. It is because all together we have struck out a
new power in the universe. Ten of us may have ten,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_43">43</span>or a hundred, or a thousand times the strength of one—or
rather you cannot measure it mathematically at
all.</p>

<p class="c013">The law of the group is not arbitrary but intrinsic.
Nothing is more practical for our daily lives than an
understanding of this. The group-spirit is the pillar of
cloud by day and of fire by night—it is our infallible
guide—it is the Spirit of democracy. It has all our
love and all our devotion, but this comes only when we
have to some extent identified ourselves with It, or
rather perhaps <a id="tn043"/>identified It with all our common,
every-day lives. We can never dominate another or
be dominated by another; the group-spirit is always our
master.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_44">44</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_4">IV<br/> <br/>THE GROUP PROCESS: THE COLLECTIVE FEELING</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE unification of thought, however, is only a
part of the social process. We must consider,
besides, the unification of feeling, affection,
emotion, desire, aspiration—all that we are. The relation
of the feelings to the development of the group
has yet to be sufficiently studied. The analysis of the
group process is beginning to show us the origin and
nature of the true sympathy. The group process is a
rational process. We can no longer therefore think
of sympathy as “contagion of feeling” based on man’s
“inherited gregarious instinct.” But equally sympathy
cannot belong to the next stage in our development—the
particularistic. Particularistic psychology, which
gave us ego and alter, gave us sympathy going across
from one isolated being to another. Now we begin with
the group. We see in the self-unifying of the group
process, and all the myriad unfoldings involved, the
central and all-germinating activity of life. The group
creates. In the group, we have seen, is formed the collective
idea, “similarity” is there achieved, sympathy too
is born within the group—it springs forever from
interrelation. The emotions I feel when apart belong
to the phantom ego; only from the group comes the
genuine feeling <em>with</em>—the true sympathy, the vital
sympathy, the just and balanced sympathy.</p>

<p class="c013">From this new understanding of sympathy as essentially
involved in the group process, as part of the generating
activity of the group, we learn two lessons: that
sympathy cannot antedate the group process, and that
it must not be confused with altruism. It had been
<span class="pageno" id="Page_45">45</span>thought until recently by many writers that sympathy
came before the social process. Evidences were collected
among animals of the “desire to help” other
members of the same species, and the conclusion drawn
that sympathy exists and that the result is “mutual
aid.” But sympathy cannot antedate the activity. We
do not however now say that there is an “instinct” to
help and then that sympathy is the result of the helping;
the feeling and the activity are involved one in the other.</p>

<p class="c013">It is asked, Was Bentham right in making the desire
for individual happiness the driving force of society, or
was Comte right in saying that love for our fellow creatures
is as “natural” a feeling as self-interest? Many
such questions, which have long perplexed us, will be
answered by a progressive social psychology. The reason
we have found it difficult to answer such questions is
because we have thought of egoistic or altruistic feelings
as preëxisting; we have studied action to see what precedent
characteristics it indicated. But when we begin
to see that men possess no characteristics apart from
the unifying process, then it is the process we shall study.</p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, we can no longer confuse sympathy and
altruism. Sympathy, born of our union, rises above
both egoism and altruism. We see now that a classification
of ego feelings and alter feelings is not enough, that
there are always whole feelings to be accounted for, that
true sympathy is sense of community, consciousness of
oneness. I am touched by a story of want and suffering,
I send a check, denying myself what I have eagerly
desired in order to do so,—is that sympathy? It is
the old particularistic sympathy, but it is not the sympathy
which is a group product, which has come from
the actual intermingling of myself with those who are
in want and suffering. It may be that I do more harm
than good with my check because I do not really know
<span class="pageno" id="Page_46">46</span>what the situation demands. The sympathy which
springs up within the group is a productive sympathy.</p>

<p class="c013">But, objects a friend, if I meet a tramp who has been
drinking whiskey, I can feel only pity for him, I can have
no sense of oneness. Yes, the tramp and I are bound
together by a thousand invisible bonds. He is a part of
that society for which I am responsible. I have not been
doing my entire duty; because of that a society has been
built up which makes it possible for that tramp to exist
and for whiskey drinking to be his chief pleasure.</p>

<p class="c013">A good illustration of both the errors mentioned—making
sympathy antedate the group process and the
confusion of sympathy and altruism—we see frequently
in the discussion of coöperation in the business world.
The question often asked, “Does modern coöperation
depend upon self-interest or upon sympathy?” is entirely
misleading as regards the real nature of sympathy.
Suppose six manufacturers meet to discuss some form
of union. There was a time when we should have been
told that if each man were guided entirely by what would
benefit his own plant, trusting the other five to be equally
interested each in his own, thereby the interest of all
would be evolved. Then there came a time when many
thinkers denied this and said, “Coöperation cannot
exist without some feeling of altruism; every one of
those manufacturers must go to the meeting with the
feeling that the interests of the other five should be considered
as well as his own; he must be guided as much
by sympathy as by self-interest.” But our new psychology
teaches us that what these men need most is
not altruistic feelings, but a consciousness of themselves
as a new unit and a realization of the needs of that unit.
The process of forming this new unit generates such
realization which is sympathy. This true sympathy,
therefore, is not a vague sentiment they bring with
<span class="pageno" id="Page_47">47</span>them; it springs from their meeting to be in its turn a
vital factor in their meeting. The needs of that new unit
may be so different from that of any one of the manufacturers
alone that altruistic feelings might be wasted!
The new ethics will never preach alter feelings but whole
feelings. Sympathy is a whole feeling; it is a recognition
of oneness. Perhaps the new psychology has no
more interesting task than to define for us that true
sympathy which is now being born in a society which
is shedding its particularistic garments and clothing
itself in the mantle of wholeness.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: sympathy is not pity, it is not benevolence,
it is one of the goals of the future, it cannot be
actualized until we can think and feel together. At
present we confuse it with altruism and all the particularist
progeny, but sympathy is always a group product;
benevolence, philanthropy, tenderness, fervor, ardor,
pity, may be possible to me alone, but sympathy is not
possible alone. The particularist stage has been necessary
to our development, but we stand now on the threshold
of another age: we see there humanity consciously
generating its own activity, its own purpose and all that
it needs for the accomplishment of that purpose. We
must now fit ourselves to cross that threshold. Our faces
have turned to a new world; to train our footsteps to
follow the way is now our task.</p>

<p class="c013">This means that we must live the group life. This is
the solution of our problems, national and international.
Employers and employed cannot be exhorted to feel sympathy
one for the other; true sympathy will come only by
creating a community or group of employers and employed.
Through the group you find the details, the filling-out
of Kant’s universal law. Kant’s categorical imperative
is general, is empty; it is only a blank check. But through
the life of the group we learn the content of universal law.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_48">48</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_5">V<br/> <br/>THE GROUP PROCESS: THE COLLECTIVE WILL</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_6 c012">FROM the group process arise social understanding
and true sympathy. At the same moment
appears the social will which is the creative
will. Many writers are laying stress on the <em>possibilities</em>
of the collective will; what I wish to emphasize is the
necessity of <em>creating</em> the collective will. Many people
talk as if the collective will were lying round loose to be
caught up whenever we like, but the fact is we must go
to our group and see that it is brought into existence.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, we go to our group to learn the process.
We sometimes hear the advantages of collective planning
spoken of as if an act of Congress or Parliament
could substitute collective for individual planning! But
it is only by doing the deed that we shall learn this doctrine.
We learn how to create the common will in our
groups, and we learn here not only the process but its
value. When I can see that agreement with my neighbor
for larger ends than either of us is pursuing alone is of
the same essence as capital and labor learning to think
together, as Germany and the Allies evolving a common
will, then I am ready to become a part of the world
process. To learn how to evolve the social will day by
day with my neighbors and fellow-workers is what the
world is demanding of me to-day. This is getting into
the inner workshop of democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">Until we learn this lesson war cannot stop, no constructive
work can be done. The very essence and substance
of democracy is the creating of the collective will.
Without this activity the forms of democracy are useless,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_49">49</span>and the aims of democracy are always unfulfilled.
Without this activity both political and industrial democracy
must be a chaotic, stagnating, self-stultifying
assemblage. Many of the solutions offered to-day for
our social problems are vitiated by their mechanical
nature, by assuming that if society were given a new
form, the socialistic for instance, what we desire would
follow. But this assumption is not true. The deeper
truth, perhaps the deepest, is that <em>the will to will the
common will</em> is the core, the germinating centre of that
large, still larger, ever larger life which we are coming
to call the true democracy.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_50">50</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_6">VI<br/> <br/>THE UNITY OF THE SOCIAL PROCESS</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE have seen that the common idea and the
common will are born together in the social
process. One does not lead to the other,
each is involved in the other. But the collective
thought and the collective will are not yet complete,
they are hardly an embryo. They carry indeed within
themselves their own momentum, but they complete
themselves only through activity in the world of affairs,
of work, of government. This conception does away
with the whole discussion, into which much ardor has
gone, of the priority of thought or action in the social
life. There is no order. The union of thought and will
and activity by which the clearer will is generated, the
social process, is a perfect unity.</p>

<p class="c013">We see this in our daily life where we do not finish our
thought, construct our will, and then begin our actualizing.
Not only the actualizing goes on at the same time,
but its reactions help us to shape our thought, to energize
our will. We have to digest our social experience,
but we have to have social experience before we can digest
it. We must learn and build and learn again through
the building, or we must build and learn and build again
through the learning.</p>

<p class="c013">We sit around the council table not blank pages but
made up of all our past experiences. Then we evolve a
so-called common will, then we take it into the concrete
world to see if it will work. In so far as it does work, it
proves itself; in so far as it does not, it generates the
necessary idea to make it “common.” Then again we
<span class="pageno" id="Page_51">51</span>test and so on and so on. In our work always new and
necessary modifications arise which again in actualizing
<em>themselves</em>, again modify themselves. This is the process
of the generation of the common will. First it appears
as an ideal, secondly it works itself out in the material
sphere of life, thereby generating itself in a new form
and so on forever and ever. All is a-making. This is
the process of creating the absolute or Good Will. To
elevate General Welfare into our divinity makes a golden
calf of it, erects it as something external to ourselves
with an absolute nature of its own, whereas it is the ever
new adjusting of ever new relatings to one another. The
common will never finds perfection but is always seeking
it. Progress is an infinite advance towards the infinitely
receding goal of infinite perfection.</p>

<p class="c013">How important this principle is will appear later when
we apply these ideas to politics. Democratic ideals will
never advance unless we are given the opportunity of
constantly embodying them in action, which action will
react on our ideals. Thought and will go out into the
concrete world in order to generate their own complete
form. This gives us both the principle and the method
of democracy. A democratic community is one in which
the common will is being gradually created by the civic
activity of its citizens. The test of democracy is the fulness
with which this is being done. The practical thought
for our
political life is that the collective will exists only
through its self-actualizing and self-creating in new and
larger and more perfectly adjusted forms.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus the unity of the social process becomes clear to
us. We now gain a conception of “right,” of purpose, of
loyalty to that purpose, not as particularistic ideas but
as arising within the process.</p>

<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_52">52</span>
  <h5 class="c018">RIGHT</h5>
</div>

<p class="c019">We are evolving now a system of ethics which has
three conceptions in regard to right, conscience and duty
which are different from much of our former ethical
teaching: (1) we do not follow right, we create right,
(2) there is no private conscience, (3) my duty is never
to “others” but to the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">First, we do not follow right merely, we create right.
It is often thought vaguely that our ideals are all there,
shining and splendid, and we have only to apply them.
But the truth is that we have to create our ideals. No
ideal is worth while which does not grow from our actual
life. Some people seem to keep their ideals all carefully
packed away from dust and air, but arranged alphabetically
so that they can get at them quickly in need. But
we can never take out a past ideal for a present need.
The ideal which is to be used for our life must come out
from that very life itself. The only way our past ideals
can help us is in moulding the life which produces the
present ideal; we have no further use for them. But we
do not discard them: we have built them into the present—we
have used them up as the cocoon is used up
in making the silk. It has been sometimes taught that
given the same situation, the individual must repeat
the same behavior. But the situation is never the same,
the individual is never the same; such a conception has
nothing to do with life. We cannot do our duty in the
old sense, that is of following a crystallized ideal, because
our duty is new at every moment.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, the knowledge of what is due the whole is
revealed within the life of the whole. This is above
everything else what a progressive ethics must teach—not
faithfulness to duty merely, but faithfulness to the
life which evolves duty. Indeed “following our duty”
<span class="pageno" id="Page_53">53</span>often means mental and moral atrophy. Man cannot
live by tabus; that means stagnation. But as one tabu
after another is disappearing, the call is upon us deliberately
to build our own moral life. Our ethical sense
will surely starve on predigested food. It is we by our
acts who progressively construct the moral universe; to
follow some preconceived body of law—that is not for
responsible moral beings. In so far as we obey old
standards without interpenetrating them with the actual
world, we are abdicating our creative power.</p>

<p class="c013">Further, the group in its distributive aspect is bringing
such new elements into the here and now that life
is wholly changed, and the ethical commands therein
involved are different, and therefore the task of the
group is to discover the new formulation which these
new elements demand. The moral law thus gathers to
itself all the richness of science, of art, of all the fulness
of our daily living.</p>

<p class="c013">The group consciousness of right thus developed becomes
our daily imperative. No mandate from without
has power over us. There are many forms of the fallacy
that the governing and the governed can be two different
bodies, and this one of conforming to standards
which we have not created must be recognized as such
before we can have any sound foundation for society.
When the ought is not a mandate from without, it is no
longer a prohibition but a self-expression. As the social
consciousness develops, ought will be swallowed up in
will. We are some time truly to see our life as positive,
not negative, as made up of continuous willing, not of
restraints and prohibition. Morality is not the refraining
from doing certain things—it is a constructive
force.</p>

<p class="c013">So in the education of our young people it is not enough
to teach them their “duty,” somehow there must be
<span class="pageno" id="Page_54">54</span>created for them to live in a world of high purpose to
which their own psychic energies will instinctively respond.
The craving for self-expression, self-realization,
must see quite naturally for its field of operation the
community. This is the secret of education: when the
waters of our life are part of the sea of human endeavor,
duty will be a difficult word for our young people to
understand; it is a glorious consciousness we want, not
a painstaking conscience. It is ourselves soaked with
the highest, not a Puritanical straining to fulfil an external
obligation, which will redeem the world.</p>

<p class="c013">Education therefore is not chiefly to teach children
a mass of things which have been true up to the present
moment; moreover it is not to teach them to learn about
life as fast as it is made, not even to interpret life, but
above and beyond everything, to create life for themselves.
Hence education should be largely the training
in making choices. The aim of all proper training is not
rigid adherence to a crystallized right (since in ethics,
economics or politics there is no crystallized right), but
the power to make a new choice at every moment. And
the greatest lesson of all is to know that every moment
<em>is</em> new. “Man lives in the dawn forever. Life is
beginning and nothing else but beginning. It begins
ever-lastingly.”</p>

<p class="c013">We must breed through the group process the kind
of man who is not fossilized by habit, but whose eye is
intent on the present situation, the present moment,
present values, and can decide on the forms which will
best express them in the actual world.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up this point: morality is never static; it
advances as life advances. You cannot hang your ideals
up on pegs and take down no. 2 for certain emergencies
and no. 4 for others. <em>The true test of our morality is
not the rigidity with which we adhere to standard, but
<span class="pageno" id="Page_55">55</span>the loyalty we show to the life which constructs standards.</em>
The test of our morality is whether we are living not to
follow but to create ideals, whether we are pouring our
life into our visions only to receive it back with its
miraculous enhancement for new uses.</p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, I have said that the conception of right as a
group product, as coming from the ceaseless interplay of
men, shows us that there is no such thing as an individual
conscience in the sense in which the term is often used.
As we are to obey no ideals dictated by others or the
past, it is equally important that we obey no ideal set
up by our unrelated self. To obey the moral law is to
obey the social ideal. The social ideal is born, grows
and shapes itself through the associated life. The individual
cannot alone decide what is right or wrong.
We can have no true moral judgment except as we live
our life with others. It is said, “Every man is subject
only to his own conscience.” But what is my conscience?
Has it not been produced by my time, my country, my
associates? To make a conscience by myself would be
as difficult as to try to make a language by myself.<a id="r16"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f16"><sup>[16]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">It is sometimes said, on the other hand, “The individual
must yield his right to judge for himself; let the
majority judge.” But the individual is not for a moment
to yield his right to judge for himself; he can judge
better for himself if he joins with others in evolving a
synthesized judgment. Our individual conscience is not
absorbed into a national conscience; our individual conscience
must be incorporated in a national conscience as
<span class="pageno" id="Page_56">56</span>one of its constituent members.<a id="r17"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f17"><sup>[17]</sup></a> Those of us who are
not wholly in sympathy with the conscientious objectors
do not think that they should yield to the majority.
When we say that their point of view is too particularistic,
we do not mean that they should give up the dictates
of their own conscience to a collective conscience. But
we mean that they should ask themselves whether their
conscience is a freak, a purely personal, conscience, or a
properly evolved conscience. That is, have they tried,
not to saturate themselves with our collective ideals, but
to take their part in evolving collective standards by
freely giving and taking. Have they lived the life which
makes possible the fullest interplay of their own ideas
with all the forces of their time? Before they range
themselves against society they must ask themselves if
they have taken the opportunities offered them to help
form the ideas which they are opposing. I do not say
that there is no social value in heresy, I only ask the
conscientious objectors to ask themselves whether they
are claiming the “individual rights” we have long
outgrown.</p>

<p class="c013">What we want is a related conscience, a conscience
that is intimately related to the consciences of other
men and to all the spiritual environment of our time, to
all the progressive forces of our age. The particularistic
tendency has had its day in law, in politics, in international
relations and as a guiding tendency in our daily
lives.</p>

<p class="c013">We have seen that a clearer conception to-day of the
unity of the social process shows us: first, that we are not
merely to follow but to create “right,” secondly, that there
is no private conscience, and third, that my duty is never
to “others” but to the whole. We no longer make a distinction
<span class="pageno" id="Page_57">57</span>between selfishness and altruism.<a id="r18"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f18"><sup>[18]</sup></a> An act done
for our own benefit may be social and one done for
another may not be. Some twenty or thirty years ago
our “individual” system of ethics began to be widely
condemned and we have been hearing a great deal of
“social” ethics. But this so-called “social” ethics has
meant only my duty to “others.” There is now emerging
an idea of ethics entirely different from the altruistic
school, based not on the duty of isolated beings to
one another, but on integrated individuals acting as a
whole, evolving whole-ideas, working for whole-ideals.
The new consciousness is of a whole.</p>

<h5 class="c018">PURPOSE</h5>

<p class="c019">As right appears with that interrelating, germinating
activity which we call the social process, so purpose
also is generated by the same process. The goal of evolution
most obviously must evolve itself. How self-contradictory
is the idea that evolution is the world-process
and yet that some other power has made the goal for
it to reach. The truth is that the same process which
creates all else creates the very purpose. That purpose
is involved in the process, not prior to process, has far
wider reaching consequences than can be taken up here.
The whole philosophy of cause and effect must be rewritten.
If the infinite task is the evolution of the whole,
if our finite tasks are wholes of varying degrees of scope
and perfection, the notion of causality must have an
entirely different place in our system of thought.</p>

<p class="c013">The question is often asked, “What is the proposed
unity of European nations after the war to be for?”
This question implies that the alliance will be a mere
method of accomplishing certain purposes, whereas it
<span class="pageno" id="Page_58">58</span>is the union which is the important thing. With the
union the purpose comes into being, and with its every
step forward, the purpose changes. No one would say
that the aims of the Allies to-day are the same as in
1914, or even as in April, 1917. As the alliance develops,
the purpose steadily shapes itself.</p>

<p class="c013">Every teleological view will be given up when we see
that purpose is not “preëxistent,” but involved in the
unifying act which is the life process. It is man’s part
to create purpose and to actualize it. From the point
of view of man we are just in the dawn of self-consciousness,
and his purpose is dimly revealing itself to him.
The life-force
wells up in us for expression—to direct
it is the privilege of self-consciousness.<a id="r19"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f19"><sup>[19]</sup></a></p>

<h5 class="c018">LOYALTY</h5>

<p class="c019">As this true purpose evolves itself, loyalty springs
into being. Loyalty is awakened through and by the
very process which creates the group. The same process
which organizes the group energizes it. We cannot
“will” to be loyal. Our task is not to “find” causes
to awaken our loyalty, but to live our life fully and
loyalty issues. A cause has no part in us or we in it if
we have fortuitously to “find” it.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_59">59</span>Thus we see that we do not love the Beloved Community
because it is lovable—the same process which
makes it lovable produces our love for it. Moreover
it is not enough to love the Beloved Community, we
must find out how to create it. It is not there for us to
accept or reject—it exists only through us. Loyalty
to a collective will which we have not created and of
which we are, therefore, not an integral part, is slavery.
We belong to our community just in so far as we are
helping to make that community; then loyalty follows,
then love follows. Loyalty means the consciousness of
oneness, the full realization that we succeed or fail,
live or die, are saved or damned together. The only
unity or community is one we have made of ourselves,
by ourselves, for ourselves.<a id="r20"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f20"><sup>[20]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Thus the social process is one all-inclusive, Self-sufficing
process. The vital impulse which is produced by
all the reciprocally interacting influences of the group
is also itself the generating and the vivifying power.
Social unity is not a sterile conception but an active
force. It is a double process—the activity which goes
to make the unity and the activity which flows from
the unity. There is no better example of centripetal
and centrifugal force. All the forces which are stored
up in the unity flow forth eternally in activity. We
create the common will and feel the spiritual energy
which flows into us from the purpose we have made, for
the purpose which we seek.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_60">60</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_7">VII<br/> <br/>THE INDIVIDUAL</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_5_0_7 c012">AS the collective idea and the collective will,
right and purpose, are born within the all-sufficing
social process, so here too the individual
finds the wellspring of his life. The visible form
in which this interplay of relations appears is society
and the individual. A man is a point in the social process
rather than a unit in that process, a point where
forming forces meet straightway to disentangle themselves
and stream forth again. In the language of the
day man is at the same time a social factor and a social
product.</p>

<p class="c013">People often talk of the social mind as if it were an
abstract conception, as if only the individual were real,
concrete. The two are equally real. Or rather the only
reality is the relating of one to the other which creates
both. Our sundering is as artificial and late an act as
the sundering of consciousness into subject and object.
The only reality is the interpenetrating of the two into
experience. Late intellectualism abstracts for practical
purposes the ego from the world, the individual from
society.</p>

<p class="c013">But there is no way of separating individuals, they
coalesce and coalesce, they are “confluent,” to use the
expression of James, who tells us that the chasm between
men is an individualistic fiction, that we are surrounded
by fringes, that these overlap and that by means of these
I join with others. It is as in Norway when the colors of
the sunset and the dawn are mingling, when to-day and
to-morrow are at the point of breaking, or of uniting,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_61">61</span>and one does not know to which one belongs, to the
yesterday which is fading or the coming hour—perhaps
this is something like the relation of one to another: to
the onlookers from another planet our colors might seem
to mingle.</p>

<p class="c013">The truth about the individual and society has been
already implied, but it may be justifiable to develop the
idea further because of the paramount importance for
all our future development of a clear understanding of
the individual. Our nineteenth-century legal theory
(individual rights, contract, “a man can do what he
likes with his own,” etc.) was based on the conception
of the separate individual.<a id="r21"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f21"><sup>[21]</sup></a> We can have no sound
legal doctrine, and hence no social or political progress,
until the fallacy of this idea is fully recognized. The
new state must rest on a true conception of the individual.
Let us ask ourselves therefore for a further
definition of individuality than that already implied.</p>

<p class="c013">The individual is the unification of a multiplied variety
of reactions. But the individual does not react to society.
The interplay constitutes both society on the one hand
and individuality on the other: individuality and society
are evolving together from this constant and complex
action and reaction. Or, more accurately, the relation
of the individual to society is not action and reaction,
but infinite interactions by which both individual and
society are forever a-making: we cannot say if we would
be exact that the individual acts upon and is acted upon,
because that way of expressing it implies that he is a
definite, given, finished entity, and would keep him
apart merely as an agent of the acting and being acted
on. We cannot put the individual on one side and
society on the other, we must understand the complete
interrelation of the two. Each has no value, no existence
<span class="pageno" id="Page_62">62</span>without the other. The individual is created by
the social process and is daily nourished by that process.
There is no such thing as a self-made man. What we
think we possess as individuals is what is stored up
from society, is the subsoil of social life. We soak up
and soak up and soak up our environment all the time.</p>

<p class="c013">Of what then does the individuality of a man consist?
Of his relation to the whole, not (1) of his apartness nor
(2) of his difference alone.</p>

<p class="c013">Of course the mistake which is often made in thinking
of the individual is that of confusing the physical with
the real individual. The physical individual is seen to
be apart and therefore apartness is assumed of the
psychic or real individual. We think of Edward Fitzgerald
as a recluse, that he got his development by being
alone, that he was largely outside the influences of society.
But imagine Fitzgerald’s life with his books. It
undoubtedly did not suit his nature to mix freely with
other people in bodily presence, but what a constant
and vivid living with others his life really was. How
closely he was in vital contact with the thoughts of men.</p>

<p class="c013">We must bear in mind that the social spirit itself may
impose apartness on a man; the method of uniting with
others is not always that of visible, tangible groups.
The pioneer spirit is the creative spirit even if it seems
to take men apart to fulfil its dictates. On the other
hand the solitary man is not necessarily the man who
lives alone; he may be one who lives constantly with
others in all the complexity of modern city life, but who
is so shut-up or so set upon his own ideas that he makes
no real union with others.</p>

<p class="c013">Individuality is the capacity for union. The measure
of individuality is the depth and breadth of true relation.
I am an individual not as far as I am apart from, but as
far as I am a part of other men. Evil is non-relation.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_63">63</span>The source of our strength is the central supply. You
may as well break a branch off the tree and expect it to
live. Non-relation is death.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that individuality consists neither of the
separateness of one man from the other, nor of the differences
of one man from the other. The second statement
is challenged more often than the first. This comes
from some confusion of ideas. My individuality is difference
springing into view as relating itself with other
differences. The act of relating is the creating act. It
is vicious intellectualism to say, “Before you relate you
must have things to relate, therefore the differences are
more elemental: there are (1) differences which (2) unite,
therefore uniting is secondary.” The only fact, the only
truth, is the creative activity which appears as the great
complex we call humanity. The activity of creating is
all. It is only by <em>being</em> this activity that we grasp it.
To view it from the outside, to dissect it into its different
elements, to lay these elements on the dissecting table
as so many different individuals, is to kill the life and
feed the fancy with dead images, empty, sterile concepts.
But let us set about relating ourselves to our community
in fruitful fashion, and we shall see that our individuality
is bodying itself forth in stronger and stronger fashion,
our difference shaping itself in exact conformity with
the need of the work we do.</p>

<p class="c013">For we must remember when we say that the essence
of individuality is the relating of self to other difference,
that difference is not something static, something given,
that it also is involved in the world of becoming.
This is what experience teaches me—that society needs
my difference, not as an absolute, but just so much difference
as will relate me. Differences develop within
the social process and are united through the social
process. Difference which is not capable of relation is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_64">64</span>eccentricity. Eccentricity, caprice, put me outside,
bring anarchy; true spontaneity, originality, belong not
to chaos but to system. But spontaneity must be coördinated;
irrelevancy produces nothing, is insanity. It is
not my uniqueness which makes me of value to the
whole but my power of relating. The nut and the screw
form a perfect combination not because they are different,
but because they exactly fit into each other and
together can perform a function which neither could
perform alone, or which neither could perform half of
alone or any part of alone. It is not that the significance
of the nut and screw is increased by their coming together,
they have no significance at all unless they do
come together. The fact that they have to be different
to enter into any fruitful relation with each other is a
matter of derivative importance—derived from the
work they do.</p>

<p class="c013">Another illustration is that of the specialist. It is not
a knowledge of his specialty which makes an expert of
service to society, but his insight into the relation of his
specialty to the whole. Thus it implies not less but more
relation, because the entire value of that specialization
is that it is part of something. Instead of isolating him
and giving him a narrower life, it gives him at once a
broader life because it binds him more irrevocably to
the whole. But the whole works both ways: the specialist
not only contributes to the whole, but all his relations
to the whole are embodied in his own particular work.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus difference is only a part of the life process. To
exaggerate this part led to the excessive and arrogant individualism
of the nineteenth century. It behooves us
children of the twentieth century to search diligently
after the law of unity that we may effectively marshal
and range under its dominating sway all the varying
diversities of life.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_65">65</span>Our definition of individuality must now be “finding
my place in the whole”: “my place” gives you the individual,
“the whole” gives you society, but by connecting
them, by saying “my place in the whole,” we get a
fruitful synthesis. I have tried hard to get away from
any mechanical system and yet it is difficult to find words
which do not seem to bind. I am now afraid of this
expression—my place in the whole. It has a rigid, unyielding
sound, as if I were a cog in a machine. But my
place is not a definite portion of space and time. The
people who believe in their “place” in this sense can
always photograph their “places.” But my place is a
matter of infinite relation, and of infinitely changing
relation, so that it can never be captured. It is neither
the anarchy of particularism nor the rigidity of the
German machine. To know my place is not to know my
niche, not to know whether I am cog no. 3 or cog no. 4;
it is to be alive at every instant at every finger tip to
every contact and to be conscious of those contacts.</p>

<p class="c013">We see now that the individual both seeks the whole
and is the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">First, the individual, biology tells us, is never complete,
completeness spells death; social psychology is
beginning to show us that man advances towards completeness
not by further aggregations to himself, but
by further and further relatings of self to other men. We
are always reaching forth for union; most, perhaps all,
our desires have this motive. The spirit craves totality,
this is the motor of social progress; the process of getting
it is not by adding more and more to ourselves, but by
offering more and more of ourselves. Not appropriation
but contribution is the law of growth. What our special
contribution is, it is for us to discover. More and more
to release the potentialities of the individual means the
more and more progressive organization of society if at
<span class="pageno" id="Page_66">66</span>the same time we are learning how to coördinate all the
variations. The individual in wishing for more wholeness
does not ask for a chaotic mass, but for the orderly
wholeness which we call unity. The test of our vitality
is our power of synthesis, of life synthesis.</p>

<p class="c013">But although we say that the individual is never complete,
it is also true that the individual is a being who,
because his function is relating and his relatings are
infinite, is in himself the whole of society. It is not that
the whole is divided up into pieces; the individual is
the whole at one point. This is the incarnation: it
is the whole flowing into me, transfusing, suffusing me.
The fulness, bigness of my life is not measured by the
amount I do, nor the number of people I meet, but how
far the whole is expressed through me. This is the reason
why unifying gives me a sense of life and more unifying
gives me a sense of more life—there is more of the
whole and of me. My worth to society is not how valuable
a part I am. I am not unique in the world because
I am different from any one else, but because I am a
whole seen from a special point of view.<a id="r22"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f22"><sup>[22]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">That the relation of each to the whole is dynamic and
not static is perhaps the most profound truth which
recent years have brought us.<a id="r23"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f23"><sup>[23]</sup></a> We now see that when
I give my share I give always far more than my share,
such are the infinite complexities, the fulness and fruitfulness
of the interrelatings. I contribute to society
my mite, and then society contains not just that much
more nourishment, but as much more as the loaves and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_67">67</span>fishes which fed the multitude outnumbered the original
seven and two. My contribution meets some particular
need not because it can be measured off against that
need, but because my contribution by means of all the
cross currents of life always has so much more than
itself to offer. When I withhold my contribution, therefore,
I am withholding far more than my personal share.
When I fail some one or some cause, I have not failed
just that person, just that cause, but the whole world is
thereby crippled. This thought gives an added solemnity
to the sense of personal responsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: individuality is a matter primarily neither
of apartness nor of difference, but of each finding his own
activity in the whole. In the many times a day that we
think of ourselves it is not one time in a thousand that
we think of our eccentricities, we are thinking indirectly
of those qualities which join us to others: we think of
the work we are doing with others and what is expected
of us, the people we are going to play with when work is
over and the part we are going to take in that play, the
committee meeting we are going to attend and what we
are going to do there. Every distinct act of the ego is
an affirmation of that amount of separateness which
makes for perfect union. Every affirmation of the ego
establishes my relation with all the rest of the universe.
It is one and the same act which establishes my individuality
and gives me my place in society. Thus an
individual is one who is being created by society, whose
daily breath is drawn <em>from</em> society, whose life is spent
<em>for</em> society. When we recognize society as self-unfolding,
self-unifying activity, we shall hold ourselves open
to its influence, letting the Light stream into us, not
from an outside source, but from the whole of which we
are a living part. It is eternally due us that that whole
should feed and nourish and sustain us at every moment,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_68">68</span>but it cannot do this unless at every moment we are
creating it. This perfect interplay is Life. To speak
of the “limitations of the individual” is blasphemy and
suicide. The spirit of the whole is incarnate in every
part. “For I am persuaded that neither death, nor life,
nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things
present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor
any other creature, shall be able to separate”—the
individual from society.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_69">69</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_8">VIII<br/> <br/>WHO IS THE FREE MAN?</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE idea of liberty long current was that the
solitary man was the free man, that the
man outside society possessed freedom but
that in society he had to sacrifice as much of his
liberty as interfered with the liberty of others. Rousseau’s
effort was to find a form of society in which all
should be as free as “before.” According to some of our
contemporary thinkers liberty is what belongs to the
individual or variation-giving-one. But this tells only
half the tale. Freedom is the harmonious, unimpeded
working of the law of one’s own nature. The true nature
of every man is found only in the whole. A man is ideally
free only so far as he is interpermeated by every other
human being; he gains his freedom through a perfect
and complete relationship because thereby he achieves
his whole nature.</p>

<p class="c013">Hence free-will is not caprice or whim or a partial wish
or a momentary desire. On the contrary freedom means
exactly the liberation from the tyranny of such particularist
impulses. When the whole-will has supreme
dominion in the heart of man, then there is freedom. The
mandate of our real Self is our liberty. The essence of
freedom is not irrelevant spontaneity but the fulness
of relation. We do not curtail our liberty by joining
with others; we find it and increase all our capacity for
life through the interweaving of willings. It is only in
a complex state of society that any large degree of freedom
is possible, because nothing else can supply the
many opportunities necessary to work out freedom. The
<span class="pageno" id="Page_70">70</span>social process is a completely Self-sufficing process.
Free-will is one of its implications. I am free for two
reasons: (1) I am not dominated by the whole because
I <em>am</em> the whole; (2) I am not dominated by “others”
because we have the genuine social process only when I
do not control others or they me, but all intermingle to
produce the collective thought and the collective will. I
am free when I am functioning here in time and space
as the creative will.</p>

<p class="c013">There is no extra-Will: that is the vital lesson for us
to learn. There is no Will except as we act. Let us <em>be</em>
the Will. Thereby do we become the Free-Will.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps the most superficial of all views is that free-will
consists in choice when an alternative is presented.
But freedom by our definition is obedience to the law of
one’s nature. My nature is of the whole: I am free,
therefore, only when I choose that term in the alternative
which the whole commands. I am not free when
I am making choices, I am not free when my acts are
not “determined,” for in a sense they always are determined
(freedom and determinism have not this kind of
opposition). I am free when I am creating. I am determined
<em>through</em> my will, not in spite of it.</p>

<p class="c013">Freedom then is the identifying of the individual will
with the whole will—the supreme activity of life. Free the
spirit of man and then we can trust the spirit of man, and
is not the very essence of this freeing of the spirit of man
the process of taking him from the self-I to the group-I?
That we are free only through the social order, only as
fast as we identify ourselves with the whole, implies
practically that to gain our freedom we must take part
in all the life around us: join groups, enter into many
social relations, and begin to win freedom for ourselves.
When we are the group in feeling, thought and will, we
are free: it does what it wishes through us—that is our
<span class="pageno" id="Page_71">71</span>liberty. In a democracy the training of every child from
the cradle—in nursery, school, at play—must be a
training in group consciousness.</p>

<p class="c013">Then we shall have the spontaneous activity of freedom.
Let us not be martyrs. Let us not give up bread
and coal that the ends of the Great War may be won,
with the feeling of a restricted life, but with the feeling
that we have gained thereby a fuller life. Let us joyously
do the work of the world because we are the world. Such
is the <i lang="fr">élan de vie</i>, the joy of high activity, which leaps
forward with force, in freedom.</p>

<p class="c013">We have to begin to-day to live the life which will
give us our freedom. Savants and plain men have affirmed
the freedom of the will, but at the same time
most of us, even while loudly claiming our freedom,
have felt bound. While determinism has many theoretical
adherents, it has many more practical ones; we have
considered ourselves bound in thousands of ways—by
tradition, by religion, by natural law, by inertia and
ignorance, etc., etc. We have said God is free but man
is not free. That we are not free has been the most
deadening fallacy to which man has ever submitted.
No outside power indeed can make us free. No document
of our forefathers can “declare” us “independent.”
No one can ever give us freedom, but we can win it for
ourselves.</p>

<p class="c013">It is often thought that when some restraint is taken
away from us we are freer than before, but this is childish.
Some women-suffragists talk of women as “enslaved”
and advocate their emancipation by the method
of giving them the vote. But the vote will not make
women free. Freedom is always a thing to be attained.
And we must remember too that freedom is not a static
condition. As it is not something possessed “originally,”
and as it is not something which can be given to us, so
<span class="pageno" id="Page_72">72</span>also it is not something won once for all. It is in our
power to win our freedom, but it must be won anew at
every moment, literally every moment. People think of
themselves as not free because they think of themselves
as obeying some external law, but the truth is <em>we</em> are
the law-makers. My freedom is my share in creating,
my part in the creative responsibility. The heart of our
freedom is the impelling power of the will of the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">Who then are free? Those who <em>win</em> their freedom
through fellowship.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_73">73</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_9">IX<br/> <br/>THE NEW INDIVIDUALISM</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE new freedom is to be founded on the new
individualism. Many people in their zeal
for a “socialized” life are denouncing “individualism.”
But individualism is the latest social
movement. We must guard against the danger of thinking
that the individual is less important because the
collective aspect of life has aroused our ardor and won
our devotion. Collectivism is no short cut to do away
with the necessity of individual achievement; it means
the greatest burden possible on every man. The development
of a truly social life takes place at the same time
that the freedom and power and efficiency of its members
develop. The individual on the other hand can
never make his individuality effective until he is given
collective scope for his activity. We sometimes hear
it said that the strong man does not like combination,
but in fact the stronger the man the more he sees coöperation
with others as the fitting field for his strength.</p>

<p class="c013">But we must learn the method of a real coöperation.
We cannot have any genuine collectivism until we have
learned how to evolve the collective thought and the
collective will. This can be done only by every one
taking part. The fact that the state owns the means of
production may be a good or a poor measure, but it is
not necessarily collectivism or a true socialism. The
wish for socialism is a longing for the ideal state, but it
is embraced often by impatient people who want to take
a short cut to the ideal state. That state must be grown—its
branches will widen as its roots spread. The
<span class="pageno" id="Page_74">74</span>socialization of property must not precede the socialization
of the will. If it does, then the only difference
between socialism and our present order will be substituting
one machine for another. We see more and
more collectivism coming: so far as it keeps pace with
the socialization of the will, it is good; so far as it does
not, it is purely mechanical. Some people’s idea of
socialism is inventing a machine to grind out your duties
for you. But every man must do his work for himself.
Not socialization of property, but socialization of the
will is the true socialism.</p>

<p class="c013">The main aim in the reconstruction of society must
be to get all that every man has to give, to bring the
submerged millions into light and activity. Those of us
who are basing all our faith on the constructive vision
of a collective society are giving the fullest value to the
individual that has ever been given, are preaching individual
value as the basis of democracy, individual affirmation
as its process, and individual responsibility as its
motor force. True individualism has been the one thing
lacking either in motive or actuality in a so-called individualistic
age, but then it has not been an individualistic
but a particularistic age. True individualism is this
moment piercing through the soil of our new understanding
of the collective life.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_75">75</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_10">X<br/> <br/>SOCIETY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE have seen that the interpenetrating of
psychic forces creates at the same time
individuals and society, that, therefore, the
individual is not a unit but a centre of forces (both
centripetal and centrifugal), and consequently society
is not a collection of units but a complex of radiating and
converging, crossing and recrossing energies. In other
words we are learning to think of society as a psychic
process.</p>

<p class="c013">This conception must replace the old and wholly
erroneous idea of society as a collection of units, and the
later and only less misleading theory of society as an
organism.<a id="r24"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f24"><sup>[24]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The old individualism with all the political fallacies
it produced—social contract of the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, majority rule of the nineteenth,
etc.—was based on the idea of developed individuals
first existing and then coming together to form society.
But the basis of society is not numbers: it is psychic
power.</p>

<p class="c013">The organic theory of society has so much to recommend
it to superficial thinking that we must examine
it carefully to find its fatal defects. But let us first
recognize its merits.</p>

<p class="c013">Most obviously, an organic whole has a spatial and
temporal individuality of its own, and it is composed of
parts each with its individuality yet which could not
<span class="pageno" id="Page_76">76</span>exist apart from the whole. An organism means unity,
each one his own place, every one dependent upon every
one else.</p>

<p class="c013">Next, this unity, this interrelating of parts, is the
essential characteristic. It is always in unstable equilibrium,
always shifting, varying, and thereby changing
the individual at every moment. But it is always produced
and maintained by the individual himself. No
external force brings it forth. The central life, the total
life, of this self-developing, self-perpetuating being is
involved in the process. Hence biologists do not expect
to understand the body by a study of the separate cells
as isolated units: it is the organic connection which
unites the separate processes which they recognize as
the fundamental fact.</p>

<p class="c013">This interrelating holds good of society when we view
it externally. Society too can be understood only by
the study of its flux of relations, of all the intricate reciprocities
which go to make the unifying. Reciprocal
ordering—subordinating, superordinating, coördinating—purposeful
self-unifyings, best describe the social
process. Led by James, who has shown us the individual
as a self-unifying centre, we now find the same kind of
activity going on in society, in the social mind. And
this interrelating, this unity as unity, is what gives to
society its authority and power.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus the term organism is valuable as a metaphor,
but it has not strict psychological accuracy.</p>

<p class="c013">There is this world-wide difference between the self-interrelatings
of society and of the bodily organism: the
social bond is a psychic relation and we cannot express
it in biological terms or in any terms of physical force.
If we could, if “functional combination” could mean a
psychological relation as well as a physiological, then
the terms “functional” and “organic” might be accepted.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_77">77</span>But they denote a different universe from that
of thought. For psychical self-unitings knit infinitely
more closely and in a wholly different way. They are
freed from the limitations of time and space. Minds
can blend, yet in the blending preserve each its own
identity. They transfuse one another while being each
its own essential and unique self.</p>

<p class="c013">It follows that while the cell of the organism has only
one function, the individual may have manifold and
multiform functions: he enters with one function into
a certain group of people this morning and with another
function into another group this afternoon, because his
free soul can freely knit itself with a new group at any
moment.<a id="r25"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f25"><sup>[25]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">This self-detaching, self-attaching freedom of the individual
saves us from the danger to democracy which
lurks in the organic theory. No man is forced to serve
as the running foot or the lifting hand. Each at any
moment can place himself where his nature calls. Certain
continental sociologists are wholly unjustified in
building their hierarchy where one man or group of men
is the sensorium, others the hewers and carriers, etc. It
is exactly this despotic and hopeless system of caste from
which the true democracy frees man. He follows the
call of his spirit and relates himself where he belongs
to-day, and through this relating gains the increment of
power which knits him anew where he now belongs and
so continually as the wind of spirit blows.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover in society every individual may be a complete
expression of the whole in a way impossible for
the parts of a physical organism.<a id="r26"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f26"><sup>[26]</sup></a> When each part is
itself potentially the whole, when the whole can live
completely in every member, then we have a true society,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_78">78</span>and we must view it as a rushing of life—onrush, outrush,
inrush—as a mobile, elastic, incalculable, Protean
energy seeking fitting form for itself. This ideal society
is the divine goal towards which life is an infinite progress.
Such conception of society must be visibly before
us to the exclusion of all other theories when we ask
ourselves later what the vote means in the true democracy.<a id="r27"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f27"><sup>[27]</sup></a></p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_79">79</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_11">XI<br/> <br/>THE SELF-AND-OTHERS ILLUSION</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">IT is now evident that self and others are merely
different points of view of one and the same experience,
two aspects of one thought. Neither of these
partial aspects can hold us, we seek always that which
includes self and others. To recognize the community
principle in everything we do should be our aim, never
to work with individuals as individuals. If I go to have
a talk with a mother about her daughter, I cannot appeal
to the mother, the daughter, or my own wishes,
only to that higher creation which we three make when
we come together. In that way only will spiritual power
be generated. Every decision of the future is to be based
not on my needs or yours, nor on a compromise between
them or an addition of them, but on the recognition of
the community between us. The community may be
my household and I, my employees and I, but it is only
the dictate of the whole which can be binding on the
whole. This principle we can take as a searchlight to
turn on all our life.</p>

<p class="c013">It is the lack of understanding of this principle which
works much havoc among us. When we watch men in
the lobbies at Washington working for their state and
their town as against the interests of the United States,
do we sometimes think, “These men have learnt loyalty
and service to a small unit, but not yet to a large one?”
If this thought does come to us, we are probably doing
those men more than justice. The man who tries to
get something in the River and Harbor appropriation for
his town, whether or not it needs it as much as other
<span class="pageno" id="Page_80">80</span>places, is pretty sure back in his own town to be working
not for that but for his own pocket. It is not because
America is too big for him to think of, that he might
perhaps think of Ohio or Millfield, it is just because he
cannot think of Ohio or Millfield. There he thinks of
how this or the other local development, rise in land
values etc., is going to benefit himself; when he is in
Washington he thinks of what is going to benefit Millfield.
But the man who works hardest and most truly
for Millfield and Ohio will probably when he comes to
Washington work most truly for the interests, not of
Millfield and Ohio, but of the United States, because he
has learned the first lesson of life—to think in wholes.</p>

<p class="c013">The expressions social and socially-minded, which
should refer to a consciousness of the whole, are often
confused with altruism. We read of “the socialized
character of modern industry.” There is a good deal of
altruism in modern industry, but little that is socialized
yet. The men who provide rest rooms, baths, lectures,
and recreation facilities for their employees, do not
by so doing prove themselves to be socially-minded;
they are altruistically-minded, and this is involved in
the old individualism.<a id="r28"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f28"><sup>[28]</sup></a> Moreover, in our attempts at
social legislation we have been appealing chiefly to the
altruism of people: women and children ought not to
be overworked, it is cruel not to have machinery safeguarded,
etc. But our growing sense of unity is fast
bringing us to a realization that all these things are for
the good of ourselves too, for the entire community. And
the war is rapidly opening our eyes to this human solidarity:
we now see health, for instance, as a national asset.</p>

<p class="c013">All of us are being slowly, very slowly, purged of our
<span class="pageno" id="Page_81">81</span>particularistic desires. The egotistic satisfaction of
giving things away is going to be replaced by the joy
of owning things together. As our lives become more
and more intricately interwoven, more and more I come
to suffer not merely when I am undergoing personal
suffering, more and more I come to desire not only when
I am feeling personal desires. This used to be considered
a fantastic idea not to be grasped by the plain man, but
every day the plain man is coming more and more to
feel this, every day the “claims” of others are becoming
My desires. “Justice” is being replaced by understanding.
There are many people to-day who feel as
keenly the fact of child labor as if these children were
their own. I vote for prohibition, even although it does
not in the least touch me, because it does touch very
closely the Me of which I am now coming into realization.</p>

<p class="c013">The identification of self and others we see in the fact
that we cannot keep ourselves “good” in an evil world
any more than we can keep ourselves well in a world of
disease. The method of moral hygiene as of physical
hygiene is social coöperation. We do not walk into the
Kingdom of Heaven one by one.</p>

<p class="c013">The exposition of the self-and-others fallacy has transformed
the idea of self-interest. Our interests are inextricably
interwoven. The question is not what is best
for me or for you, but for all of us. My interests are not
less important to the world than yours; your interests
are not less important to the world than mine. If the
“altruistic” man is not a humbug, that is, if he really
thinks his affairs of less importance to the world than
those of others, then there is certainly something the
matter with his life. He must raise his life to a point
where it is of as much value to the world as any one’s else.</p>

<p class="c013">The self-and-others fallacy has led directly to a conception
which has wrought much harm among us, namely,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_82">82</span>the identification of “others” with “society” which leads
the self outside society and brings us to one of the most
harmful of dualisms. The reason we are slow to understand
the matter of the subordination of the individual
to society is because we usually think of it as meaning
the subordination of the individual to “others,” whereas
it does not at all, it means the subordination of the individual
to the whole of which he himself is a part. Such
subordination is an act of assertion; it is fraught with
active power and force; it affirms and accomplishes.
We are often told to “surrender our individuality.” To
<em>claim</em> our individuality is the one essential claim we
have on the universe.</p>

<p class="c013">We give up self when we are too sluggish for the heroic
life. For our self is after all the greatest bother we ever
know, and the idea of giving it up is a comfortable thought
for sluggish people, a narcotic for the difficulties of life.
But it is a cowardly way out. The strong attitude is
to face that torment, our self, to take it with all its
implications, all its obligations, all its responsibilities,
and be ourselves to the fullest degree possible.</p>

<p class="c013">I do not mean to imply, however, that unselfishness
has become obsolete. With our new social ideal there
is going to be a far greater demand on our capacity for
sacrifice than ever before, but self-sacrifice now means
for us self-fulfilment. We have now a vision of society
where service is indeed our daily portion, but our conception
of service has entirely changed. The other day
it was stated that the old idea of democracy was a society
in which every man had the right to pursue his own
ends, while the new idea was based on the assumption
that every man should serve his fellow-men. But I do
not believe that man should “serve his fellow-men”;
if we started on that task what awful prigs we should
become. Moreover, as we see that the only efficient
<span class="pageno" id="Page_83">83</span>people are the servers, much of the connotation of humility
has gone out of the word service! Moreover, if
service is such a very desirable thing, then every one
must have an equal opportunity for service.</p>

<p class="c013">We have had a wrong idea of individualism which
has made those who had more strength, education, time,
money, power, feel that they must do for those who
had less. In the individualism we see coming, all our
efforts will be bent to making it possible for every man
to depend upon himself instead of depending upon
others. So <i lang="fr">noblesse oblige</i> is really egoistic. It is what
I owe to myself to do to others. <i lang="fr">Noblesse oblige</i> has had
a splendid use in the world, but it is somewhat worn
out now simply because we are rapidly getting away
from the selfish point of view. I don’t do things now
because my position or my standing or my religion or
<em>my</em> anything else demands it, nor because others need
it, but because it is a whole-imperative, that is, a social
imperative. We cannot transcend self by means of
others, but only through the synthesis of self and others.
Wholeness is an irresistible force compelling every member.
The consciousness of this is the wellspring of our
power.</p>

<p class="c013">An English writer says that we get leadership from
the fact that men are capable of being moved to such
service by the feeling of altruism; he attributes public
spirit to love, pity, compassion and sensitiveness to
suffering. This is no doubt largely true at the present
moment, but public spirit will sometime mean, as it
does to-day in many instances, the recognition that it
is not merely that my city, my nation needs me, but
that I need it as the larger sphere of a larger self-expression.</p>

<p class="c013">I remember some years ago a Boston girl just entering
social work, fresh from college, with all the ardor and
enthusiasm of youth and having been taught the ideals
<span class="pageno" id="Page_84">84</span>of service to others. She was talking to me about her
future and said that she was sorry family circumstances
obliged her to work in Boston instead of New York,
there was so much more to reform in New York! She
seemed really afraid that justice and morality had
reached such a point with us that she might not be
afforded sufficient scope for her zeal. It was amusing,
but think of the irony of it: that girl had been taught
such a view of life that her happiness, her outlet, her
self-expression, depended actually on there being plenty
of misery and wretchedness for her to change; there
would be no scope for her in a harmonious, well-ordered
world.</p>

<p class="c013">The self-and-others theory of society is then wrong.
We have seen that the Perfect Society is the complete
interrelating of an infinite number of selves knowing
themselves as one Self. We see that we are dependent
on the whole, while seeing that we are one with it in
creating it. We are separate that we may belong, that
we may greatly produce. Our separateness, our individual
initiative, are the very factors which accomplish
our true unity with men. We shall see in the chapter on
“Political Pluralism” that “irreducible pluralism” and the
self-unifying principle are not contradictory.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_85">85</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_12">XII<br/> <br/>THE CROWD FALLACY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">MANY people are ready to accept the truth
that association is the law of life. But in
consequence of an acceptance of this theory
with only a partial understanding of it, many people
to-day are advocating the life of the crowd. The words
society, crowd, and group are often used interchangeably
for a number of people together. One writer says, “The
real things are breathed forth from multitudes ... the
real forces of to-day are group forces.” Or we read of
“the gregarious or group life,” or “man is social because
he is suggestible,” or, “man is social because he likes to
be with a crowd.” But we do not find group forces in
multitudes: the crowd and the group represent entirely
different modes of association. Crowd action is the
outcome of agreement based on concurrence of emotion
rather than of thought, or if on the latter, then on a
concurrence produced by becoming aware of similarities,
not by a slow and gradual creating of unity. It is a
crowd emotion if we all shout “God save the King.” Suggestibility,
feeling, impulse—this is usually the order
in the crowd mind.</p>

<p class="c013">I know a little boy of five who came home from school
one day and said with much impressiveness, “Do you
know whose birthday it is to-morrow?” “No,” said his
mother, “whose?” “Ab’m Lincoln’s,” was the reply.
“Who is he?” said the mother. With a grave face and
an awed voice the child replied, “He freed the slates!”
and then added, “I don’t know whether they were the
big kind like mine or the little kind like Nancy’s.” But
<span class="pageno" id="Page_86">86</span>his emotion was apparently as great, his sentiment as
sincere, as if he had understood what Lincoln had done
for his country. This is a good example of crowd suggestion
because thought was in this case inhibited by
contagious emotion.</p>

<p class="c013">Suggestion is the law of the crowd, interpenetration of
the group. When we study a crowd we see how quickly
B takes A’s ideas and also C and D and E; when we
study a group we see that the ideas of A often arouse in
B exactly opposite ones. Moreover, the crowd often
deadens thought because it wants immediate action,
which means an unthinking unanimity not a genuine
collective thought.<a id="r29"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f29"><sup>[29]</sup></a> The group on the other hand stimulates
thought. There are no “differences” in the crowd
mind. Each person is swept away and does not stop to
find out his own difference. In crowds we have unison,
in groups harmony. We want the single voice but not
the single note; that is the secret of the group. The
enthusiasm and unanimity of a mass-meeting may warm
an inexperienced heart, but the experienced know that
this unanimity is largely superficial and is based on the
spread of similar ideas, not the unifying of differences.
A crowd does not distinguish between fervor and wisdom;
a group usually does. We do not try to be eloquent
when we appear before a board or a commission; we try
merely to be convincing. Before a group it is self-control,
restraint, discipline which we need, we don’t “let ourselves
go”; before a crowd I am sorry to say we usually
do. Many of us nowadays resent being used as part of
a crowd; the moment we hear eloquence we are on
<span class="pageno" id="Page_87">87</span>the defensive. The essential evil of crowds is that they
do not allow choice, and choice is necessary for progress.
A crowd is an undifferentiated mass; a group is an articulated
whole.</p>

<p class="c013">It is often difficult to determine whether a number of
people met together are a crowd or a group (that is, a
true society), yet it is a distinction necessary for us to
make if we would understand their action. It is not in
the least a question of numbers: it is obvious that according
to our present definition a group is not a small
number of people and a crowd a large number. If someone
cries “Fire,” and you and I run to the window, then
you and I are a crowd. The difference between a group
and a crowd is not one of degree but of kind. I have
seen it stated in a sociological treatise that in any deliberative
assembly there is a tendency for the wisest
thought to prevail. This assumes that “any deliberative
assembly” is more like a group than a crowd—a
very pleasant thing to assume!</p>

<p class="c013">Some writers seem to think that the difference between
a crowd and a not-crowd is the difference between
organized and unorganized, and the example is given of
laborers unorganized as a crowd and of a trade-union
as a not-crowd. But a trade-union can be and often is
a crowd.</p>

<p class="c013">We have distinguished between the crowd and the
group; it is also necessary to distinguish between the
crowd and the mob. Often the crowd or mass is confused
with the mob. The examples given of the mass
or crowd mind are usually a lynching-party, the panic-stricken
audience in a theatre fire, the mobs of the French
Revolution. But all these are very different from a mass
of people merely acting under the same suggestion, so different
that we need different names for them. We might
for the moment call one a crowd and the other a mob.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_88">88</span>An unfortunate stigma has often attached itself to
the crowd mind because of this tendency to think of the
crowd mind as always exhibiting itself in inferior ways.
Mass enthusiasm, it is true, may lead to riots, but also it
may lead to heroic deeds. People talk much of the
panic of a crowd, but every soldier knows that men
are brave, too, in a mass. Students have often studied
what they called the mass mind when it was under the
stress of great nervous strain and at a high pitch of excitement,
and then have said the mass acts thus and so. It
has been thought legitimate to draw conclusions concerning
the nature of the mass mind from an hysterical
mob. It has been assumed that a crowd was necessarily,
as a crowd, in a condition of hysteria. It has often been
taken for granted that a crowd <em>is</em> a pathological condition.
And color has been given to this theory by the
fact that we owe much of our knowledge of the laws of
suggestion to pathologists.</p>

<p class="c013">But the laws of the mass can be studied in ordinary
collections of people who are not abnormally excited,
who are not subjects for pathologists. The laws of the
mass as of the mob are, it is true, the laws of suggestion
and imitation, but the mob is such an extreme case of
the mass that it is necessary to make some distinction
between them. Emotion in the crowd as in the mob is
intensified by the consciousness that others are sharing
it, but the mob is this crowd emotion carried to an extreme.
As normal suggestibility is the law of the mass,
so abnormal suggestibility is the law of the mob. In
abnormal suggestibility the controlling act of the will
is absent, but in normal suggestibility you have the
will in control and using its power of choice over the
material offered by suggestion. Moreover, it must be
remembered that emotional disturbance is not always
the cause of the condition of suggestibility: the will may
<span class="pageno" id="Page_89">89</span>lose its ascendancy from other causes than excitement;
suggestibility often comes from exhaustion or habit.</p>

<p class="c013">The fact is we know little of this subject. Billy Sunday
and the Salvation Army, political bosses and labor
agitators, know how to handle crowds, but the rest of us
can deal with individuals better than with the mass;
we have taken courses in first-aid to the injured, but we
have not yet learned what to do in a street riot or a financial
panic.</p>

<p class="c013">Besides the group and the crowd and the mob, there
is also the herd. The satisfaction of the gregarious instinct
must not be confused with the emotion of the
crowd or the true sense of oneness in the group. Some
writers draw analogies from the relation of the individual
to the herd to apply to the relation of man to society;
such analogies lead to false patriotism and wars. The
example of the wild ox temporarily separated from his
herd and rushing back to the “comfort of its fellowship”
has adorned many a different tale. The “comfort” of
feeling ourselves in the herd has been given as the
counterpart of spiritual communion, but are we seeking
the “comfort” of fellowship or the creative agonies of
fellowship? The latter we find not in herd life, but in
group life.</p>

<p class="c013">Then besides the group, the crowd, the mob, the herd,
there are numbers as mere numbers. When we are a lot
of people with different purposes we are simply wearied,
not stimulated. At a bazaar, for instance, far from
feeling satisfaction in your fellow-creatures, you often
loathe them. Here you are not swayed by one emotion,
as in a crowd, nor unified by some intermingling of
thought as in a group.</p>

<p class="c013">It must be understood that I do not wish to make any
arbitrary dictum in regard to distinctions between the
crowd and the herd, the crowd and mere numbers, etc.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_90">90</span>I merely wish to point out that the subject has not yet
received sufficient study. What is it we feel at the midnight
mass of the Madeleine? It is not merely the one
thought which animates all; it is largely the great mass
of people who are feeling the one thought. But many
considerations and unanswered questions leap to our
mind just here. All this is an interesting field for the
further study and close analysis of psychologists.</p>

<p class="c013">We must not, however, think from these distinctions
that man as member of a group and man as member of
a crowd, as one of a herd or of a mob or of a mere assemblage,
is subject to entirely different laws which never
mingle; there are all the various shadings and minglings
of these which we see in such varied associations as business
corporation, family, committee, political meeting,
trade-union etc. Our herd traditions show in our group
life; there is something of the crowd in all groups and
there is something of the group in many crowds, as in a
legislative assembly. Only further study will teach us
to distinguish how much herd instinct and how much
group conviction contribute to our ideas and feelings
at any one time and what the tendencies are when these
clash. Only further study will show us how to secure
the advantages of the crowd without suffering from its
disadvantages. We have all felt that there was much
that was valuable in that emotional thrill which brings
us into a vaster realm although not a coördinated realm;
we have all rejoiced in the quickened heart-beat, the
sense of brotherhood, the love of humanity, the renewed
courage which have sometimes come to us when we were
with many people. Perhaps the ideal group will combine
the advantages of the mass and the group proper:
will give us collective thought, the creative will and at
the same time the inspiration for renewed effort and sustained
self-discipline.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_91">91</span>Crowd association has, however, received more study
than group association because as a matter of fact there
is at present so much more of the former than of the
latter. But we need not only a psychology which looks
at us as we are, but a psychology which points the way
to that which we may become. What our advanced
thinkers are now doing is to evolve this new psychology.
Conscious evolution means giving less and less place to
herd instinct and more to the group imperative. We are
emerging from our gregarious condition and are now to
enter on the rational way of living by scanning our relations
to one another, instead of bluntly feeling them,
and so adjusting them that unimpeded progress on this
higher plane is secured.</p>

<p class="c013">And now that association is increasing so rapidly on
every hand, it is necessary that we see to it that this
shall be group association, not crowd association. In the
business world our large enterprises are governed by
boards, not by one man: one group (corporation) deals
with another group (corporation). Hospitals, libraries,
colleges, are governed by boards, trustees, faculties. We
have committees of arbitration, boards of partial management
(labor agreements) composed of representatives
of employers and employed. Many forms of coöperation
are being tried: some one must analyze the psychological
process of the generation of coöperative
activity. All this means a study of group psychology.
In the political world there is a growing tendency to
put the administrative part of government more and
more into the hands of commissions. Moreover, we
have not legislatures swayed by oratory and other forms
of mass suggestion, but committee government. Of
course legislative committees do not try to get the group
idea, they are largely controlled by partisan and financial
interests, but at any rate they are not governed wholly
<span class="pageno" id="Page_92">92</span>by suggestion. In the philanthropic world we no longer
deal with individuals: we form a committee or association
to deal with individuals or with groups of individuals.
The number of associations of every kind for
every purpose increases daily. Hence we must study
the group.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_93">93</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_13">XIII<br/> <br/>THE SECRET OF PROGRESS</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_0_0_5 c012">I HAVE said that the essence of the social process
is the creating of ever new values through the interplay
of all the forces of life. But I have also tried
to show that these forces must be organized; from confusion
nothing is born. The spiritual order grows up
within us as fast as we make new correlations. Chaos,
disorder, destruction, come everywhere from refusing the
syntheses of life.</p>

<p class="c013">The task of coadaptation is unending, whether it
means getting on with a difficult member of my family,
playing the game at school or college, doing my part
in my business, my city, or whether it means Germany
and the Allies living together on the same planet.</p>

<p class="c013">Nietzsche thought that the man who showed the most
force was the most virtuous. Now we say that all this
brute energy is merely the given, that the life-process is
the unifying of the given—he who shows the unifying
power in greatest degree is the superman. Progress is
not determined then by economic conditions, by physical
conditions nor by biological factors solely, but more
especially by our capacity for genuine coöperation.</p>

<p class="c013">This idea of progress clear-cuts some long-established
notions. We see now the truth and the fallacy in the
assertions (1) that social evolution depends upon individual
progress with imitation by the crowd, (2) that
evolution means struggle and the survival of the fittest.</p>

<p class="c013">For some years the generally accepted theory of the
social process was that the individual invents, society
spreads. We have already examined one half of this
<span class="pageno" id="Page_94">94</span>theory; let us look at the other half—the idea that
the individual originates.</p>

<p class="c013">If a man comes forward with an idea, what do we
mean by saying that he is more “original” than his
fellows? So far as the quality of originality can be described,
do we not mean that his capacity for saturation
is greater, his connection with the psychic reservoir
more direct, so that some group finds in him its most
complete interpreter? Or even if it is quite evident that
in a particular instance a particular individual has not
derived his idea from the group of which he is at the
moment a member, but has brought it to the group,
none of us believes that that idea arose spontaneously
in his mind independent of all previous association.
This individual has belonged to many other groups,
has discussed with many men, or even if he has lived
his life apart he has read newspapers and magazines,
books and letters, and has mingled his ideas with those
he has found there. Thus the “individual” idea he
brings to a group is not really an “individual” idea; it
is the result of the process of interpenetration, but by
bringing it to a new group and soaking it in that the
interpenetration becomes more complex. The group idea
he takes away is now his individual idea so far as any
new group is concerned, and in fact it becomes an active
agent in his progress and the progress of society only by
meeting a new group. Our life is more and more stagnant
in proportion as we refuse the group life.</p>

<p class="c013">According to the old theory, the individual proposes,
society accepts or rejects; the individual is forever walking
up to society to be embraced or rejected—it sounds
like some game but is hardly life.</p>

<p class="c013">There is an interesting theory current which is the
direct outcome of the fallacy that the individual originates
and society imitates, namely, the great man theory.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_95">95</span>While it seems absurd in this age to be combating the
idea of special creation, yet it is something very like
this that one comes up against sometimes in the discussion
of this theory. The question is often asked,
“Does the great man produce his environment or is he
the product of his environment?” Although for my purpose
I may seem to emphasize the other side of things,
not for a moment do I wish to belittle the inestimable
value of genius. But the fact of course is that great men
make their environment and are made by their environment.
There wells up in the individual a fountain of
power, but this fountain has risen underground and is
richly fed by all the streams of the common life.<a id="r30"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f30"><sup>[30]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">I have spoken of fallacies in the individual invention
theory and in the struggle theory. But I am using the
word struggle as synonymous with strife, opposition, war;
effort, striving, the ceaseless labor of adjustment will
always be ours, but these two ideas represent opposite
poles of existence. In the true theory of evolution struggle
has indeed always been adaptation. For many years
the “strongest” man has been to science the being with
the greatest number of points of union, the “fittest” has
been the one with the greatest power of coöperation.
Darwin we all know believed that the cause of the advance
of civilization was in the social habits of man.
Our latest biologists tell us that “mutual aid” has from
the first been a strong factor in evolution, that the animal
species in which the practice of “mutual aid”<a id="r31"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f31"><sup>[31]</sup></a> has
attained the greatest development are invariably the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_96">96</span>most numerous and the most prosperous. We no longer
think of the animal world as necessarily a world of strife;
in many of its forms we find not strife but coördinated
activities.</p>

<p class="c013">But to too many people struggle suggests conquest
and domination; it implies necessarily victors and vanquished.
Some sociologists call the dissimilar elements
of a group the struggle elements, and the similar elements
the unifying elements. But this is a false distinction
which will, as long as persisted in, continue the war
between classes and between nations. The test of our
progress is neither our likenesses nor our unlikenesses,
but what we are going to do with our unlikenesses.
Shall I fight whatever is different from me or find the
higher synthesis? The progress of society is measured
by its power to unite into a living, generating whole
its self-yielding differences.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, we think now of the survival of groups
rather than of individuals. For the survival of the group
the stronger members must not crush the weaker but
cherish them, because the spiritual and social strength
which will come from the latter course makes a stronger
group than the mere brute strength of a number of
“strong” individuals. That is, the strength of the group
does not depend on the greatest number of strong men,
but on the strength of the bond between them, that is,
on the amount of solidarity, on the best organization.</p>

<p class="c013">But it might be said, “You still evidently believe in
struggle, only you make the group instead of the individual
the unit.” No, the progress of man must consist
in extending the group, in belonging to many groups,
in the relation of these groups. If we accept life as endless
battle, then we shall always have the strong overcoming
the weak, either strong individuals conquering
the weak, or a strong group a weak group, or a strong
<span class="pageno" id="Page_97">97</span>nation a weak nation. But synthesis is the principle of
life, the method of social progress. Men have developed
not through struggle but through learning how to live
together.</p>

<p class="c013">Lately the struggle theory has been transferred from
the physical to the intellectual world. Many writers
who see society as a continuous conflict think its highest
form is discussion. One of these says, “Not for a moment
would I deny that fighting is better carried on by
the pen than by the sword, but some sort of fighting
will be necessary to the end of the world.” No, as long
as we think of discussion as a struggle, as an opportunity
for “argument,” there will be all the usual evil
consequences of the struggle theory. But all this is superficial.
If struggle is unavailing, it is unavailing all along
the line. It is not intellectual struggle that marks the
line of progress, but any signs of finding another method
than struggle. Two neighbors quarrelling in words are
little more developed than two men fighting a duel. We
must learn to think of discussion not as a struggle but
as experiment in coöperation. We must learn coöperative
thinking, intellectual team-work. There is a secret
here which is going to revolutionize the world.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps the most profound reason against struggle is
that it always erects a thing-in-itself. If I “fight” Mr.
X, that means that I think of Mr. X as incapable of
change—that either he or I must prevail, must conquer.
When I realize fully that there are no things-in-themselves,
struggle simply fades away; then I know
that Mr. X and I are two flowing streams of activity
which must meet for larger ends than either could pursue
alone.</p>

<p class="c013">Is Germany the last stronghold of the old theory of
evolution, is she the last being in a modern world to
assert herself as a thing-in-itself? President Wilson’s
<span class="pageno" id="Page_98">98</span>contribution to this war is that he refuses to look upon
Germany as a thing-in-itself.</p>

<p class="c013">The idea of adaptation to environment has been so
closely connected with the “struggle for existence” theory
that some people do not seem to realize that in giving up
the latter, the former still has force, although with a
somewhat different connotation. We now feel not only
that adaptation to environment is compatible with <a id="tn098"/>coöperation,
but that coöperation is the basis of adaptation
to environment. But our true environment is
psychic, and as science teaches adaptation to the physical,
so group psychology will teach the secret of membership
in the psychic environment, will teach the branch
to know its vine, where its own inner sources of life are
revealed to it. Then we shall understand that environment
is not a hard and rigid something external to us,
always working upon us, whose influence we cannot
escape. Not only have self and environment acted and
reacted upon each other, but the action and reaction
go on every moment; both self and environment are
always in the making. The individual who has been
affected by his environment acts on an environment
which has been affected by individuals. We shall need
an understanding of this for all our constructive work:
it is not that formative influences work on a dead mass of
inertia, but formative influences work on an environment
which has already responded to initiatives, and these
initiatives have been affected by the responses. We
cannot be practical politicians without fully understanding
this.</p>

<p class="c013">Progress then must be through the group process.
Progress implies respect for the creative process not the
created thing; the created thing is forever and forever
being left behind us. The greatest blow to a hide-bound
conservatism would be the understanding that life is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_99">99</span>creative at every moment. What the hard-shelled conservative
always forgets is that what he really admires
in the past is those very moments when men have strongly
and rudely broken with tradition, burst bonds, and
created something. True conservatism and true progressivism
are not two opposites: conservatives dislike
“change,” yet they as well as progressives want to grow;
progressives dislike to “stand pat,” yet they as well as
conservatives want to preserve what is good in the present.
But conservatives often make the mistake of thinking
they can go on living on their spiritual capital;
progressives are often too prone not to fund their capital
at all.</p>

<p class="c013">What we must get away from is “the hell of rigid
things.” There is a living life of the people. And it
must flow directly through our government and our institutions,
expressing itself anew at every moment. We
are not fossils petrified in our social strata. <em>We are alive.</em>
This is the first lesson for us to learn. That very word
means change and change, growth and growth. To live
gloriously is to change undauntedly—our ideals must
evolve from day to day, and it is upon those who can
fearlessly embrace the doctrine of “becoming” that the
life of the future waits. All is growing; we must recognize
this and free the way for the growth. We must
unclose our spiritual sources, we must allow no mechanism
to come between our spiritual sources and our
life. The <i lang="fr">élan vital</i> must have free play.</p>

<p class="c013">Democracy must be conceived as a process, not a goal.
We do not want rigid institutions, however good. We
need no “body of truth” of any kind, but the will to will,
which means the power to make our own government, our
own institutions, our own expanding truth. <em>We progress,
not from one institution to another, but from a lesser to a
greater will to will.</em></p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_100">100</span>We know now that there are no immutable goals—there
is only a way, a process, by which we shall, like
gods, create our own ends at any moment—crystallize
just enough to be of use and then flow on again. The
flow of life and we the flow: this is the truth. Life is
not a matter of desirable objects here and there; the
stream flows on and he who waits with his object is left
with a corpse. Man is equal to life at every moment,
but he must live for <em>life</em> and not for the <em>things</em> life has
produced.</p>

<p class="c013">Yet while it is true that life can never be formalized
or formulated, that life is movement, change, onwardness,
this does not mean that we must give up the
abiding. The unchangeable and the unchanging are
both included in the idea of growth.<a id="r32"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f32"><sup>[32]</sup></a> Stability is neither
rigidity nor sterility: it is the perpetual power of bringing
forth.</p>

<p class="c013">Writers are always fixing dates for the dividing line
between the ancient and the modern world, or between
the mediæval and the modern world. Soon the beginning
of modern times, of modern thought, will, I believe,
be dated at the moment when men began to look at a
plastic world, at a life constantly changing, at institutions
as only temporary crystallizations of life forces, of
right as evolving, of men as becoming.</p>

<p class="c013">The real work of every man is then to build. The challenge
is upon us. This is the task to which all valiant
souls must set themselves. We are to rise from one
mastery to another. We are to be no longer satisfied
with the pace of a merely fortuitous progress. We must
know now that we are coworkers with every process
of creation, that our function is as important as the
power which keeps the stars in their orbits. We are
<span class="pageno" id="Page_101">101</span>creators here and now. We are not in the anteroom
of our real life. This is real life.</p>

<p class="c013">We cannot, however, mould our lives each by himself;
but within every individual is the power of joining himself
fundamentally and vitally to other lives, and out of
this vital union comes the creative power. Revelation,
if we want it to be continuous, must be through the community
bond. No <em>individual</em> can change the disorder
and iniquity of this world. No chaotic <em>mass</em> of men and
women can do it. Conscious <em>group</em> creation is to be the
social and political force of the future. Our aim must
be to live consciously in more and more group relations
and to make each group a means of creating. It is the
group which will teach us that we are not puppets of
fate.</p>

<p class="c013">Then will men and women spend their time in trivial
or evil ways when they discover that they can make a
world to their liking? We are sometimes told that young
men and women working all day under the present very
trying industrial conditions live in our great cities a
round of gaiety at night. Go and look at them. It is
a depressing sight. A tragedy is a tragedy and has its
own nobility, but this farce of a city population enjoying
itself at night is a pitiful spectacle. Go to clubs, go
to dances, go to theatres or moving-pictures, and the
mass of our young people look indifferent and more or
less bored—they have <em>not</em> found the joy of life. Play,
as useless idling, does not give us joy. Work, as drudgery,
does not give us joy. Only creating gives us joy.
When we see that we are absolute masters of our life,
that in every operation, however humble, we are working
out the fundamental laws of being, then we shall
walk to our daily work as the soldiers march to the
Marseillaise.</p>

<p class="c013">We know what happened on that lonely island in a
<span class="pageno" id="Page_102">102</span>distant sea when the young Prince came to the people
of the Kingdom of Cards, who had always lived by Rules,
and taught them to live by their Ichcha, their will.
Images became men and women, rules gave place to
wills, the caste of the Court cards was lost, a mechanism
changed into life. The inhabitants of the Kingdom of
Cards, who had never thought, who had never made a
decision, learned the royal power of choosing for themselves.
Regulations were abandoned, and the startling
discovery was made that <em>they could walk in any direction
they chose</em>. This is what we need to learn—that we can
walk in any direction we choose. We are not a pack of
cards to be put here and there, to go always in rows,
to totter and fall when we are not propped up. We
must obey our Ichcha.</p>

<p class="c013">Already the change has begun. I have said that we
are beginning to recognize this power—there are many
indications that we are beginning to live this power.
We are no longer willing to leave human affairs to
“natural” control: we do not want war because it is
“natural” to fight; we do not want a haphazard population
at the dictates of “nature.” We no longer believe
that sickness and poverty are sent by God; people
are being taught that they need not be sick, that it is
largely in their own hands, their own collective hands
(social hygiene etc.). Modern charity is not aimed at
relieving individual poverty, but at freeing the individual
from the particular enslavement which has produced his
poverty, in freeing society from the causes which produce
poverty at all.<a id="r33"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f33"><sup>[33]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Our once-honored blind forces are more and more
losing their mastery over us. We are at this moment,
however, in a difficult transition period. We are “freer”
<span class="pageno" id="Page_103">103</span>than ever before; the trouble is we do not know what to
do with this freedom. It is easy to live the moral, the
“social,” life when it consists in following a path carefully
marked out for us, but the task given us to-day is
to revalue all the world values, to steer straight on and
on into the unknown—a gallant forth-faring indeed.
But conscious evolution, the endless process of a perfect
coördinating, demands vital people. War is the easy
way: we take to war because we have not enough vitality
for the far more difficult job of agreeing. So also
that kind of religion which consists of contemplation
of other-worldliness is the easy way, and we take to that
when we have not enough vitality deliberately to direct
our life and construct our world. It takes more spiritual
energy to express the group spirit than the particularist
spirit. This is its glory as well as its difficulty. We
have to be higher order of beings to do it—we become
higher order of beings by doing it. And so the progress
goes on forever: it means life forever in the making, and
the creative responsibility of every man.</p>

<p class="c013">Conscious evolution is the key to that larger view of
democracy which we are embracing to-day. The key?
Every man sharing in the creative process <em>is</em> democracy;
this is our politics and our religion. People are always
inquiring into their relation to God. God is the moving
force of the world, the ever-continuing creating where
men are the co-creators. “<i lang="fr">Chaque homme fait dieu, un
peu, avec sa vie</i>,” as one of the most illumined of the
younger French poets says.<a id="r34"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f34"><sup>[34]</sup></a> Man and God are correlates
of that mighty movement which is Humanity self-creating.
God is the perpetual Call to our self-fulfilling.
We, by sharing in the life-process which binds all together
<span class="pageno" id="Page_104">104</span>in an active, working unity are all the time sharing
in the making of the Universe. This thought calls
forth everything heroic that is in us; every power of
which we are capable must be gathered to this glorious
destiny. This is the True Democracy.<a id="r35"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f35"><sup>[35]</sup></a></p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_105">105</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_14">XIV<br/> <br/>THE GROUP PRINCIPLE AT WORK</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">OUR rate of progress, then, and the degree in
which we actualize the perfect democracy,
depend upon our understanding that man
has the power of creating, and that he gets this power
through his capacity to join with others to form a real
whole, a living group. Let us see, therefore, what signs
are visible to-day of the group principle at work.</p>

<p class="c013">First, our whole idea of education is rapidly changing.
The chief aim of education now is to fit the child into
the life of the community; we do not think of his “individual”
development except as contributing to that.
Or it would be nearer the truth to say that we recognize
that his individual development is essentially just that.
The method of accomplishing this is chiefly through
(1) the introduction of group class-room work in the
place of individual recitations, (2) the addition of vocational
subjects to the curriculum and the establishment
of vocational schools, and (3) the organizing of vocational
guidance departments and placement bureaus in connection
with the public schools.</p>

<p class="c013">In many of the large cities of the United States the
public schools have a vocational guidance department,
and it is not considered that the schools have done their
duty by the child until they have helped him to choose
his life occupation, have trained him in some degree for
it, and have actually found him a job, that is, fitted him
into the community. It is becoming gradually accepted
that this is a function of the state, and several of our
<span class="pageno" id="Page_106">106</span>states are considering the appropriation of funds for the
carrying on of such departments.<a id="r36"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f36"><sup>[36]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The further idea of education as a continuous process,
that it stops neither at 14 nor 21 nor 60, that a man
should be related to his community not only through
services rendered and benefits received but by a steady
process of preparation for his social and civic life, will
be discussed later.<a id="r37"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f37"><sup>[37]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The chief object of medical social service is to put
people into harmonious and fruitful relation, not only
because illness has temporarily withdrawn certain people
from the community, but because it is often some lack
of adaptation which has caused the illness.</p>

<p class="c013">Our different immigration theories show clearly the
growth of the community idea. First came the idea of
amalgamation: our primary duty to all people coming
to America was to assimilate them as quickly and as
thoroughly as possible. Then people reacted against
the melting-pot theory and said, “No, we want all the
Italians have to offer, all the Syrians can give us; the
richness of these different civilizations must not be engulfed
in ours.” So separate colonies were advocated,
separate organizations were encouraged. Many articles
were written and speeches made to spread this thought.
But now a third idea is emerging—the community idea.
We do not want Swedes and Poles to be lost in an undifferentiated
whole, but equally we do not want all the
evils of the separatist method; we are trying to get an
articulated whole. We want all these different peoples
to be part of a true community—giving all they have
to give and receiving equally. Only by a mutual permeation
of ideals shall we enrich their lives and they ours.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_107">107</span>Again our present treatment of crime shows the community
principle in two ways: (1) the idea of community
responsibility for crime is spreading rapidly;
(2) we are fast outgrowing the idea of punishing criminals
merely, our object is to fit them into society.</p>

<p class="c013">First, the growing idea of community responsibility
for crime. We read in an account of the new penology
that “Crime in the last analysis is not to be overcome
after arrest but before,” that crime will be abolished by
a change of environment and that “environment is transformed
by child labor laws and the protection of children,
by housing laws and improved sanitation, by the
prevention of tuberculosis and other diseases, by health-giving
recreational facilities, by security of employment,
by insurance against the fatalities of industry and the
financial burdens of death and disease, by suitable vocational
training, by all that adds to the content of human
life and gives us higher and keener motives to self-control,
strenuous exertion and thrift.” We of course do
not exonerate the individual from responsibility, but
it must be shared by the whole society in which he
lives.</p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, the old idea of justice was punishment, a
relic of personal revenge; this punishment took the form
of confinement, of keeping the man outside society. The
new idea is exactly the opposite: it is to join him to
society by finding out just what part he is best fitted to
play in society and training him for it. A former Commissioner
of Corrections in New York told me that a
number of people, including several judges, were looking
forward to the time very soon being ripe for making
the “punishment” of a crime the doing some piece of
social service in order to fit the criminal into the social
order. One man who had shown in his crime marked
organizing ability had been sent to oversee the reclaiming
<span class="pageno" id="Page_108">108</span>of some large tracts of abandoned farm land, and
this had worked so well that a number of judges wished
to try similar experiments.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus criminals are coming to be shown that their
crime has not been against individuals but against society,
that it has divorced them from their community
and that the object of their imprisonment is that they
may learn how to unite themselves to their community.
The colony system means that they must learn to live
in a community <em>by</em> living in a community. This is the
object of Mr. William George’s “Social Sanitarium,”
where the men are to live in a graded series of farm
villages, govern themselves, support themselves and also
their families as far as possible, and pass from “village”
to “village” on their way towards the society from which
their crime has separated them.</p>

<p class="c013">This same principle, to make the life while under
punishment a preparation for community life, underlay
the work of Mr. Osborne at Sing Sing. Through his
Mutual Welfare League he tried to develop a feeling of
responsibility to the community, a feeling first of all
that there was a community within the prison. All the
men knew gang loyalty; it was Mr. Osborne’s aim to
build upon this. He thought they could not feel responsibility
to a community outside when they left unless they
learnt community consciousness inside. He did not provide
recreation for them solely for the sake of recreation;
he did not allow them self-government because of any
abstract idea of the justice of self-government; he tried
to bring the men of Sing Sing to a realization of a community,
to a sense of responsibility to a community.
The two men who escaped from Sing Sing in 1916 and
voluntarily returned had learned this lesson.<a id="r38"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f38"><sup>[38]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_109">109</span>Both these principles—community responsibility for
crime and the necessity of fitting the offender into the
community life—underlie the work of the juvenile court.
The probation officer’s duty is not exhausted by knitting
the child again into worthy relations; he must try to see
that community life shall touch children on all sides in
a helpful not a harmful way.</p>

<p class="c013">A future task for the juvenile court is to organize
groups back of the child as part of the system of probation.
All our experience is showing us the value of using
the group incentive. The approval or blame of our
fellow-men is an urgent factor in our lives; a man can
stand any sort of condemnation better than that of his
club. It was the idea of community punishment which
was such an interesting part of the “Little Commonwealth”
which Mr. Homer Lane established near Detroit
for boys and girls on probation. If a boy did not
work he was not punished for it, he did not even go
without food, but the whole commonwealth had to
pay for it out of their earnings. The whole moral
pressure of the community was thus brought to bear
upon that boy to do his share of the work—an incentive
which Mr. Lane found more powerful than any
punishment.</p>

<p class="c013">A colonel of the American army says that fewer offenses
are committed in our army than in the Continental
armies, not because human nature is different in America
but because our methods of army discipline are different:
the custom in our army is to punish a company for the
offense of an individual; the company, therefore, looks
after its own members.</p>

<p class="c013">The procedure of our courts also shows signs of change
in the direction of the recognition of the group principle.
Until recently we have had in our courts two lawyers,
each upholding his side: this means a real struggle, there
<span class="pageno" id="Page_110">110</span>is no effort at unifying, one or the other must win; the
judge is a sort of umpire. But the Reconciliation Court
of Cleveland (and some other western cities) marks a
long step in advance. This does away with lawyers
each arguing one side; the judge deals directly with
the disputants, trying to make them see that a harmonizing
of their differences is possible. In our municipal
courts, to be sure, the principal function of the judge has
long been not to punish but to take those measures which
will place the individual again in his group, but this
applies only to criminal cases, whereas the Reconciliation
Court of Cleveland, following the practice of the
conciliation courts of certain continental countries,<a id="r39"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f39"><sup>[39]</sup></a> deals
with civil cases. The part of the judge in our juvenile
courts is too well known to need mention.</p>

<p class="c013">In a jury I suppose we have always had an example
of the group idea in practical life. Here there is no
question of counting up similar ideas—there must be
one idea and the effort is to seek that.</p>

<p class="c013">In our legislatures and legislative committees we get
little integrated thought because of their party organization;
even among members of the same party on a committee
there are many causes at work to prevent the
genuine interplay we should have. The governors’ commissions,
on the other hand, hear both sides, call in
many experts and try to arrive at some composite
judgment.</p>

<p class="c013">Nowhere has our social atomism been more apparent
than in our lack of city-planning: (1) we have had many
beautiful single buildings, but no plan for the whole
city; (2) and more important, we could not get any
general plan for our cities accepted because the individual
<span class="pageno" id="Page_111">111</span>property owner (this was called individualism!) must
be protected against the community. City-planning
includes not only plans for a beautiful city but for all
its daily needs—streets, traffic regulations, housing,
schools, industry, transportation, recreational facilities;
we cannot secure these things while property owners
are being protected in their “rights.” The angry protest
which goes up from real estate owners when it is
proposed to regulate the height of buildings we have
heard in all our cities. The struggle for enough light and
air in tenements has been fought step by step. The
“right” claimed was the right of every man to do what
he liked with his own property. Now we are beginning
to recognize the error of this, and to see that it is not a
state of individualism but of anarchy that our new building
laws are trying to do away with. No real estate
owner is to be allowed to do that with his own property
which will not fit into a general plan for the beauty and
efficiency of the city. The key-note of the new city-planning
is adaptation, adaptation of means to end and
of part to part. This does not stifle individual initiative,
but directs it.</p>

<p class="c013">And the interesting point for us here is that the real
estate men themselves are now beginning to see that
particularistic building has actually hurt real estate
interests. The “Report of the Advisory Council of the
Real Estate Interests of New York City” admits that
“light, air and access, the chief factors in fixing rentable
values, had been impaired by high buildings and by the
proximity of inappropriate or nuisance buildings and
uses.” It is impossible to talk ten minutes with real
estate men to-day without noticing how entirely changed
their attitude has been in the last ten or twenty years.
Moralists used to tell us that the only path of progress
was to make people willing to give up their own interests
<span class="pageno" id="Page_112">112</span>for the sake of others. But this is not what our real
estate men are doing. They are coming to see that their
interests are in the long run coincident with the interests
of all the other members of the city.</p>

<p class="c013">The growing recognition of the group principle in the
business world is particularly interesting to us. The
present development of business methods shows us that
the old argument about coöperation and competition is
not fruitful. Coöperation and competition are being
taken up into a larger synthesis. We are just entering
on an era of collective living. “Cut-throat” competition
is beginning to go out of fashion. What the world
needs to-day is a coöperative mind. The business world
is never again to be directed by individual intelligences,
but by intelligences interacting and ceaselessly influencing
one another. Every mental act of the big business
man is entirely different from the mental acts of the
man of the last century managing his own competitive
business. There is of course competition between our
large firms, but the coöperation between them is coming
to occupy a larger and larger place relatively. We
see this in the arrangement between most of our large
printers in Boston not to outbid one another, in those
trades which join to establish apprentice schools, in the
coöperative credit system, worked out so carefully in
some of the western cities as almost to eliminate bad
debts, in the regular conferences between the business
managers of the large department stores, in our new
Employment Managers’ associations in Boston and elsewhere,
in the whole spirit of our progressive Chambers
of Commerce. When our large stores “compete” to
give the highest class goods and best quality service,
and meet in conference to make this “competition”
effective, then competition itself becomes a kind of
coöperation! There are now between thirty and forty
<span class="pageno" id="Page_113">113</span>associations in this country organized on the open-price
plan. The Leather Belting Exchange, an excellent
example of “coöperative competition,” was organized
in 1915. Some of its avowed objects are: standardization
of grades of leather, promotion of use of leather
belting by scientific investigation of its possible uses,
uniform contract system, uniform system of cost accounting,
daily charts of sales, monthly statistical reports,
collection and distribution of information relative
to cost of raw material and to methods and cost of manufacturing
and distribution.<a id="r40"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f40"><sup>[40]</sup></a> How vastly different a
spirit from that which used to animate the business
world!</p>

<p class="c013">Modern business, therefore, needs above all men who
can unite, not merely men who can unite without friction,
but who can turn their union to account. The
successful business man of to-day is the man of trained
coöperative intelligence. The world as well as the psychologist
places a higher value on the man who can take
part in collective thinking and concerted action, and has
higher positions to offer him in the business and political
field. The secretary of a Commission investigates a
subject, is clever in mastering details, in drawing conclusions
and in presenting them, perhaps far cleverer in
these respects than any member of the Commission.
But the chairman of the Commission must have another
and higher power—the power of uniting these conclusions
with the conclusions of others, the power of using
this material to evolve with others plans for action.
This means a more developed individual and brings a
higher price in the open market.</p>

<p class="c013">Another illustration of the group principle in the business
world is that a corporation is obliged by law to
act in joint meeting, that is, it cannot get the vote of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_114">114</span>its members by letter and then act according to the
majority.</p>

<p class="c013">But more important than any of the illustrations yet
given is the application of the group principle to the
relations of capital and labor. People are at last beginning
to see that industrial organization must be based
on the community idea. If we do not want to be dominated
by the special interests of the capital-power, it is
equally evident that we do not want to be dominated
by the special interests of the labor-power. The interests
of capital and labor must be united.<a id="r41"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f41"><sup>[41]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Even collective bargaining is only a milestone on the
way to the full application of the group principle. It
recognizes the union, it recognizes that some adjustment
between the interests of capital and labor is possible, but
it is still “bargaining,” still an adjustment between two
warring bodies, it still rests on the two pillars of concession
and compromise. We see now the false psychology
underlying compromise and concession. Their practical
futility has long been evident: whenever any difference
is “settled” by concession, that difference pops up again
in some other form. Nothing will ever truly settle differences
but synthesis. No wonder the syndicalists label
the “compromises” made between “antagonistic interests”
as insincere. In a way all compromise is insincere,
and real harmony can be obtained only by an
integration of “antagonistic” interests which can take
place only when we understand the method. The error
of the syndicalists is in thinking that compromise is
the only method; their fundamental error is in thinking
that different interests are necessarily “antagonistic”
interests.</p>

<p class="c013">Compromise is accepted not only as inevitable and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_115">115</span>as entirely proper, but as the most significant fact of
human association, by those economists who belong to
that school of “group sociologists” which sees present
society as made up of warring groups, ideal society as
made up of groups in equilibrium. Not only, I believe, is
conflict and compromise not the true social process, but
also it is not, even at present, the most significant, although
usually the largest, part of the social process.
The integrating of ideas which comes partly from direct
interpenetration, and partly from that indirect interpenetration
which is the consequence of the overlapping
membership of groups, I see going on very largely in
the groups to which I belong, and is surely an interesting
sign-post to future methods of association.</p>

<p class="c013">The weakness of Arbitration and Conciliation Boards,
with their “impartial” member, is that they tend to mere
compromise even when they are not openly negotiations
between two warring parties.<a id="r42"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f42"><sup>[42]</sup></a> It is probable from
what we see on all sides that the more “concessions”
we make, the less “peace” we shall get. Compulsory
Arbitration in New Zealand has not succeeded as well
as was hoped just because it has not found the community
between capital and labor.</p>

<p class="c013">The latest development of collective bargaining, the
Trade Agreement,<a id="r43"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f43"><sup>[43]</sup></a> with more or less permanent boards
of representatives from employers and workers, brings
us nearer true community than we have yet found in
industrial relations. The history of these Agreements
in England and America is fruitful study. One of the
best known in America is Mr. Justice Brandeis’ protocol
<span class="pageno" id="Page_116">116</span>scheme in 1910 for the garment industries of New York,
which provided for an industrial court composed of employers
and employed to which all disagreements should
be brought, and for six years this prevented strikes in
the needle trades of New York.<a id="r44"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f44"><sup>[44]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">One of the most interesting of the Trade Agreements
to be found in the Bulletins of the National Labor Department,
and one which can be studied over a long term
of years, is that between the Stove Founders’ National
Defence Association (employers) and the Iron Moulders’
Union of North America. It is not only that the permanent
organ of “conference” (employers and employees
represented) has brought peace to the stove
industry after forty years of disastrous strikes and lockouts,
but that question after question has been decided
not by the side which the market rendered strongest
at the moment seizing its advantage, but by a real
harmonizing of interest. A good illustration is the
treatment of the question of who should pay for
the bad castings: that was not decided at once as a
matter of superior strength or of compromise, but
after many months a basis of mutual advantage was
found.</p>

<p class="c013">For some years Trade Agreements have been coming
to include more and more points; not wages and hours
alone, but many questions of shop management, discipline
etc. are now included. Moreover it has been
seen over and over again that the knowledge gained
through joint conference is the knowledge needed for
joint control: the workmen ought to know the cost of
production and of transportation, the relative value of
different processes of production, the state of the market,
the conditions governing the production and marketing
of the competing product etc.; the employer must know
<span class="pageno" id="Page_117">117</span>the real conditions of labor and the laborer’s point of
view.</p>

<p class="c013">The fundamental weakness of collective bargaining
is that while it provides machinery for adjustment of
grievances, while it looks forward to all the conceivable
emergencies which may arise to cause disagreement between
labor and capital, and seeks methods to meet
these, it does not give labor a direct share in industrial
control. In the collective <em>bargain wages</em> and the conditions
of employment are usually determined by the relative
<em>bargaining</em> strength of the workers and employers
of the industrial group. Not bargaining in any form,
not negotiation, is the key to industrial peace and prosperity;
the collective contract must in time go the way
of the individual contract. Community is the key-word
for all relations of the new state. Labor unions have
long been seeking their “rights,” have looked on the
differences between capital and labor as a fight, and
have sought an advantageous position from which to
carry on the fight: this attitude has influenced their
whole internal organization. They quite as much as
capital must recognize that this attitude must be given
up. If we want harmony between labor and capital, we
must make labor and capital into one group: we must
have an integration of interests and motives, of standards
and ideals of justice.</p>

<p class="c013">It is a mistake to think that social progress is to depend
upon anything happening to the working people: some
say that they are to be given more material goods and
all will be well; some think they are to be given more
“education” and the world will be saved. It is equally
a mistake to think that what we need is the conversion
to “unselfishness” of the capitalist class. Those
who advocate profit-sharing are not helping us. The
quarrel between capital and labor can never be settled
<span class="pageno" id="Page_118">118</span>on material grounds. The crux of that quarrel is not
profits and wages—it is the joint control of industry.</p>

<p class="c013">There has been an increasing tendency of recent years
for employers to take their employees into their councils.
This ranges from mere “advisory” boards, which are
consulted chiefly concerning grievances, through the
joint committees for safety, health, standardization,
wages etc., to real share in the management.<a id="r45"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f45"><sup>[45]</sup></a> But even
in the lowest form of this new kind of coöperation we
may notice two points: the advisory boards are usually
representative bodies elected by the employees, and they
are consulted as a whole, not individually. The flaw in
these advisory boards is not so much, as is often thought,
because the management still keeps all the power in its
own hands, as that the company officials do not sit with
these boards in joint consultation. There is, however,
much variety of method. In some shops advisory committees
meet with the company officials. Some companies
put many more important questions concerning
conditions of employment before these bodies than other
companies would think practical. A few employers have
even given up the right to discharge—dismissal must
be decided by fellow-employees.</p>

<p class="c013">Usually the management keeps the final power in its
own hands. This is not so, however, in the case of Wm.
Filene Son’s Co., Boston, which has gone further than
any other plant in co-management. Here the employees
have the right by a two-thirds vote to change, initiate,
or amend any rule that affects the discipline or working
conditions of the employees of the store, and such
vote becomes at once operative even against the veto of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_119">119</span>the management. Further, out of eleven members of
the board of directors, four are representatives of the
employees.<a id="r46"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f46"><sup>[46]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The great advantage of company officials and workers
acting together on boards or committees (workshop
committees, discipline boards, advisory councils, boards
of directors, etc.) is the same as that of the regular joint
conferences of the Trade Agreement: employers and
employed can thus learn to function together and prepare
the way for joint control. Workshop committees
should be encouraged, not so much because they remove
grievances etc., as because in the joint workshop committee,
managers and workers are learning to act together.
Industrial democracy is a process, a growth.
The joint control of industry may be established by
some fiat, but it will not be the genuine thing until the
<em>process</em> of joint control is learned. To be sure, the
workshop committees which are independent of the management
are often considered the best for the workers
because they can thus keep themselves free to maintain
and fight for their own particular interests, but this is
exactly, I think, what should be avoided.</p>

<p class="c013">The labor question is—Is the war between capital and
labor to be terminated by fight and conquest or by
learning how to function together? I face fully the fact
that many supporters of labor believe in what they call
the “frank” recognition that the interests of capital
and labor are “antagonistic.” I believe that the end
of the wars of nations and of the war between labor and
capital will come in exactly the same way: by making
<span class="pageno" id="Page_120">120</span>the nations into one group, by making capital and labor
into one group. Then we shall learn to distinguish between
true and apparent interests, or rather, between
long-run and immediate interests; then we shall give
up the notion of “antagonisms,” which belong to a static
world, and see only difference—that is, that which is
capable of integration. This is not an idealistic treatment
of the labor problem. Increase of wages and reduction
in cost of production were once considered an
irreconciliable antagonism—now their concurrence is
a matter of common experience. If the hope of that
concurrence had been abandoned as visionary or idealistic,
we should be sadly off to-day. Many people are
now making a distinction, however, between production
and distribution in this respect: in the former the interests
of capital and labor are the same, it is said, but
not in the latter. When that reorganization of the
business world, which it is no longer utopian to think
of, is further actualized, then in distribution too we shall
be able to see the coincident interests of labor and capital.</p>

<p class="c013">As the most hopeful sign in the present treatment of
industrial questions is the recognition that man with his
fundamental instincts and needs is the very centre and
heart of the labor problem, so the most hopeful sign that
we shall fully utilize the constructive powers which will
be released by this psychological approach to industrial
problems, is the gradually increasing share of the workman
in the actual control of industry.</p>

<p class="c013">The recognition of community rather than of individuals
or class, the very marked getting away from the
attitude of pitting labor interests against the interests
of capital, is the most striking thing from our point of
view about the famous report formulated by a sub-committee
of the British Labor Party in the autumn of
1917. In every one of the four “Pillars” of the new
<span class="pageno" id="Page_121">121</span>social order this stands out as the most dominant feature.
In explaining the first, The Universal Enforcement
of the National Minimum, it is explicitly stated
that this is not to protect individuals or a class, but to
“safeguard” the “community” against the “insidious
degradation of the standard of life.” The second, The
Democratic Control of Industry, proposes national ownership
and administration of the railways, canals and
mines and “other main industries ... as opportunity
offers,” with “a steadily increasing participation of the
organized workers in the management,” the extension
of municipal enterprise to housing and town planning,
public libraries, music and recreation, and the fixing of
prices. This “Pillar,” too, we are told, is not a class
measure, but is “to safeguard the interests of the community
as a whole.”</p>

<p class="c013">Under the heading, “Revolution in National Finance,”
the third “Pillar,” it is again definitely stated and moreover
convincingly shown that this is not “in the interests
of wage-earners alone.” Under “The Surplus Wealth
for the Common Good,” the fourth “Pillar,” it is stated
that the surplus wealth shall be used for what “the
community day by day needs for the perpetual improvement
and increase of its various enterprises,” “for scientific
investigation and original research in every branch of
knowledge,” and for “the promotion of music, literature
and fine arts.” “It is in the proposal for this appropriation
of every surplus for the common good—in the vision
of its resolute use for the building up of the community
as a whole ... that the Labor Party ... most distinctively
marks itself off from the older political parties.”<a id="r47"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f47"><sup>[47]</sup></a></p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_122">122</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_15">XV<br/> <br/>FROM CONTRACT TO COMMUNITY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">BUT perhaps nowhere in our national life is the
growing recognition of the group or community
principle so fundamental for us as in our modern
theory of law. Mr. Roscoe Pound has opened a new
future for America by his exposition of modern law, an
exposition which penetrates and illumines every department
of our thought. Let us speak briefly of this modern
theory of law. It is: (1) that law is the outcome of our
community life, (2) that it must serve, not individuals,
but the community.</p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Pound, in a series of articles on “The Scope and
Purpose of Sociological Jurisprudence” in the Harvard
Law Review (1910-1912), points out that it was an epoch-making
moment when attention began to be turned
from the nature of law to its purpose. The old conception
of law was that “new situations are to be met always
by deductions from old principles.” The new
school (headed by Jhering) believe that “law is a product
of conscious and increasingly determinate human will.”
“Legal doctrines and legal interests do not work themselves
out blindly, but have been fashioned by human
wants to meet human needs.” Before Jhering the theory
of law had been individualistic; Jhering’s is a social
theory of law. “The eighteenth century conceived of
law as something which the individual invoked against
society; ... Jhering taught that it was something
created by society through which the individual found
a means of securing his interests, so far as society recognized
them.” And Jhering called his a jurisprudence of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_123">123</span>realities; he wanted legal precepts worked out and tested
by results. For instance, if a rule of commercial law were
in question, the search should be for the rule which best
accords with and gives effect to sound business practice.<a id="r48"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f48"><sup>[48]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">So, Mr. Pound tells us, the idea of justice as the maximum
of individual self-assertion, which began to appear
at the end of the sixteenth century and reached its highest
development in the nineteenth century, began to
give way towards the end of the nineteenth century to
the new idea of the end of law. Modern jurists have
come to consider the working of law more than its abstract
content; they lay stress upon the social purposes
which law subserves rather than upon sanction.<a id="r49"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f49"><sup>[49]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Pound then shows us that Gierke’s theory of association
“became as strong an attack upon the individualistic
jurisprudence of the nineteenth century upon one
side as Jhering’s theory of interests was upon another.”
The “real personality” of the group is plainly expounded
by Gierke, that it is not a legal fiction, that is that the
law does not create it but merely recognizes that which
already exists, that this “real person” is more than an
aggregation of individuals, that there is a group will
which is something real apart from the wills of the associated
individuals.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus German jurists recognize the principle of “community.”
The theory of <span lang="de">Vereinbarung</span>, as expounded
by Jellinek,<a id="r50"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f50"><sup>[50]</sup></a> is also a recognition of the fact that one will
can be formed from several. The present tendency to
work out the law of association through the study of
the group is marked and significant.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_124">124</span>The chief consequence of this growing tendency in
modern juristic thinking is seen in the change in attitude
towards contract. The fundamental question of
relation, of association, is—Can you make one idea
grow where two grew before? <em>This</em> is the law of fruitful
increase. The gradual progress away from contract in
legal theory is just the gradual recognition of this principle.
You can have a contractual relation between two
wills or you can have those two wills uniting to form
one will. Contract never creates one will. It is the
latter process which is shown in the development of
corporation law.<a id="r51"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f51"><sup>[51]</sup></a> The laws regulating partnership are
based on contractual relations between the individual
members. The laws regulating corporations are based
on the theory that a corporation is something quite different
from the individuals who constitute it or the sum
of those individuals, that a new entity has been created.
I am writing at this moment (February, 1918) in a room
with the thermometer at 42, but the law would not
uphold me in going and getting my share, as a stock
holder, of the coal now in the New York, New Haven
and Hartford sheds! But to many the personality of
the corporation is a fiction: they do not consider the
corporation a self-created entity but a state-created
entity. To others, following Gierke, the corporation is
merely a state-<em>recognized</em> entity, it has the inherent
power to create itself. The increasing acceptance of
this latter theory has made it possible to hold liable
groups which have not been legally incorporated but
which exercise powers analogous to those of corporations.
This has been the principle of some of the English
decisions making trade-unions responsible, as notably in
the Taff-Vale case.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_125">125</span>The paradox of contract is that while it seems to be
based on relation, it is in reality based on the individual.
Contract is a particularist conception. Mr. Pound
speaks of the significance of the “parallel movement
away from liberty of contract and yet at the same time
towards the full recognition of association.” It is the
legal theory of association based on our growing understanding
of group psychology which will finally banish
contract. When Duguit, the eminent French jurist,
tells us that contract is diminishing, it is because he sees
a time when all juridical manifestations will come from
unilateral acts.<a id="r52"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f52"><sup>[52]</sup></a> We see contract diminishing because
we believe in a different mode of association: as fast as
association becomes a “community” relation, as fast as
individuals are recognized as community-units, just so
fast does contract fade away. Jellinek points out that
legal theory is coming to recognize that violation of community
is quite different from the violation of contract.</p>

<p class="c013">From status to contract we do not now consider the
history of liberty but of particularism—the development
of law through giving a larger and larger share to
the particular will. The present progress of law is from
contract to community. Our particularistic law is giving
way to a legal theory based on a sound theory of interrelationship.
Our common law has considered men as
separate individuals, not as members of one another.
These separate individuals were to be “free” to fight out
their differences as best they could, it being overlooked
that freedom for one might not mean freedom for the
other, as in the case of employer and employed. “Individual
rights” in practice usually involve some difference
<span class="pageno" id="Page_126">126</span>of opinion as to who is the individual! Mr. Olney said
of the Adair case: “It is archaic, it is a long step into the
past, to conceive of and deal with the relations between
the employer in such industries and the employee as if
the parties were individuals.”<a id="r53"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f53"><sup>[53]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The principles of individual rights and contract which
have long dominated our courts<a id="r54"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f54"><sup>[54]</sup></a> are giving way now
to sounder doctrine. The old idea was that a man could
do what he liked with his own; this is not the modern
notion of law. We find a judge recently saying: “The
entire scheme of prohibition as embodied in the Constitution
and laws of Kansas might fail, if the right of
each citizen to manufacture intoxicating liquors for his
own use or as a beverage were recognized. Such a right
does not inhere in citizenship.”<a id="r55"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f55"><sup>[55]</sup></a> Our future law is to
serve neither classes nor individuals, but the community.
The lawyer is to bring his accumulation of knowledge
not to his clients merely, but to enrich and interpret and
adjust our whole social life.</p>

<p class="c013">We have many signs to-day of the growing recognition
of community as the basis of law. The following are
taken from an article by Mr. Pound:<a id="r56"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f56"><sup>[56]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The increasing tendency of law to impose limitations
on the use of property, limitations designed to prevent
the anti-social use of property. This has already been
noticed in our new building laws.</p>

<p class="c013">The limitations now imposed on freedom of contract.
This is shown in the statutes regulating the hours and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_127">127</span>conditions of labor, in the law of insurance,<a id="r57"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f57"><sup>[57]</sup></a> in the judicial
decisions which have established that the duties of
public service corporations are not contractual, flowing
from agreement, but quasi-contractual, flowing from the
calling in which the public servant is engaged.</p>

<p class="c013">Limitations on the part of creditor or injured party to
exact satisfaction. This is illustrated by the homestead
exemptions which prevail in many states, and such
exemptions as tools to artisans, libraries to professional
men, and animals and implements to farmers.</p>

<p class="c013">Imposition of liability without fault, as illustrated in
workmen’s compensation and employers’ liability.<a id="r58"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f58"><sup>[58]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Water rights are now interpreted with limitations on
the owners. The idea is becoming accepted that running
water is an asset of society which is not capable of
private appropriation or ownership except under regulations
that protect the general interest. This tendency
is changing the whole water law of the western states.</p>

<p class="c013">Insistence on interest of society in dependent members
of household. With respect to children it is not
the individual interest of the parents, but the interest of
society which is regarded.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus modern law is being based more and more upon
a recognition of the community principle.</p>

<p class="c013">When we sometimes hear a lawyer talk of such
measures as old age pensions as a matter of “social expediency,”
we know that he has not yet caught the community
<span class="pageno" id="Page_128">128</span>idea in law. Modern law considers individuals
not as isolated beings, but in their relation to the life
of the whole community. Thus in shortening the hours
of work the courts can no longer say this is an “unwarrantable
interference” with individual liberty; they have
to consider the health of the individual in its relation to
his family and his work, also the use he will make of his
leisure, the need he has for time to perform his duties
as citizen, etc. etc. Mr. Pound points out with great
clearness that relation is taking the place of contract in
modern law. Workmen’s compensation arises from the
theory of reciprocal rights and duties and liabilities
which flow from a relation. This he tells us was the
common law conception until deflected by contract;
now we are going back to it and we do not ask the
strict terms of the contract, but what the relation
demands.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps social psychology can give two warnings to
this new tendency of law. First this relation must not
be a personal relation. I have spoken several times of
our modern legal system as based on relation, but this
must not be confused with the relation of the Middle
Ages. Then the fundamental truth of relation, that life
is a web of relationships, was felt intuitively, but it was
worked out on its personal side. The feudal age lived in
the idea of relation, but the heart of the feudal system
was personal service. It was like loyalty to the party
chief: right or wrong, the vassal followed his lord to the
battlefield and died with him there. Because it was
worked out on its personal side it had many imperfections,
and the inevitable reaction swung far away. Now
the pendulum is returning to relation as the truth of life,
but it is to be impersonal. Employers and employed
must study the ideal relation and try to actualize that.
We seek always the law of true community.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_129">129</span>Secondly, the relation itself must always be in relation.
But these warnings are not necessary for our progressive
judges. It is interesting to read the decisions
of our common-law judges with this in view: to see how
often the search is for the law of the actual conditions
and what obligations those actual conditions create, not
for a personal relation with some abstract conception of
a static relation. It is of a <em>relation in relation</em> that judges
must, and often to-day do, consider: not landlord and
tenant as landlord and tenant, not master and servant
as master and servant, but of that relation in relation
to other relations, or, we might say, to society. This
growing conception of a dynamic relation in itself means
a new theory of law.<a id="r59"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f59"><sup>[59]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Thus our law to-day is giving up its deductions from
juristic conceptions, from the “body of rules” upon
which trial procedure has so largely rested, and is beginning
to study the condition given with the aim of
reaching the law of that condition. Mr. Pound says distinctly
that law is to be no longer based on first principles,
but on “the conditions it is to govern.” And we
are told that “Mr. Justice
Holmes has been unswerving
in his resistance to any doctrinaire interpretation,” that
his decisions follow the actual conditions of life even
often against his own bias of thought.<a id="r60"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f60"><sup>[60]</sup></a> The great value
of Mr. Justice Brandeis’ brief in the Oregon case concerning
the constitutionality of limiting the hours of
women in industry, was his insistence upon social facts.
And Mr. Felix Frankfurter made an address before the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_130">130</span>American Bar Association in August, 1915, the burden
of which was that “law must follow life.” His plea
for a “creative” system of law in the place of the
crystallized system of the past which we are trying
with hopeless failure to apply to present conditions
points the way with force and convincingness to a
New Society based on the evolving not the static principle
of life.</p>

<p class="c013">As our theory of the state no longer includes the idea
of contractual obligation, we begin to see the interdependence
of state and law, that neither is prior to the
other. The same process which evolves the state evolves
the law. Law flows from our life, therefore it cannot be
above it. The source of the binding power of law is not
in the consent of the community, but in the fact that it
has been produced by the community. This gives us a
new conception of law. Some writers talk of social justice
as if a definite idea of it existed, and that all we
have to do to regenerate society is to direct our efforts
towards the realization of this ideal. But the ideal of
social justice is itself a collective and a progressive development,
that is, it is produced through our associated
life and it is produced anew from day to day. We do
not want a “perfect” law to regulate the hours of women
in industry; we want that kind of life which will make
us, all of us, grow the best ideas about the hours of
women in industry, about women in industry, about
women, about industry.</p>

<p class="c013">We cannot assume that we possess a body of achieved
ideas stamped in some mysterious way with the authority
of reason and justice, but even were it true, the reason
and justice of the past must give way to the reason and
justice of the present. You cannot bottle up wisdom—it
won’t keep—but through our associated life it may
be distilled afresh at every instant. We are coming now
<span class="pageno" id="Page_131">131</span>to see indeed that law is a social imperative in the strict
psychological sense, that is, that it gets its authority
through the power of group life. Wundt says, The development
of law is a process of the psychology of peoples,
therefore law will forever be a process of becoming.<a id="r61"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f61"><sup>[61]</sup></a>
Our obedience to law then must not be obedience to past
law, but obedience to that law which we with all the
experience of the past at our command, with all the
vision of the future which the past has taught us, with
all the intelligence which vivid living in the present has
developed in us, are able to make for our generation, for
our country, for the world. We are told that one of the
most salient points in modern juristic thinking is its
faith in the efficacy of effort, its belief that law has been
and may be made consciously.</p>

<p class="c013">When we look upon law as a thing we think of it as a
finished thing; the moment we look upon it as a process
we think of it always in evolution. Our law must take
account of our social and economic conditions, and it
must do it again to-morrow and again day after to-morrow.
We do not want a new legal system with every
sunrise, but we do want a method by which our law
shall be capable of assimilating from day to day what
it needs to act upon that life from which it has drawn
its existence and to which it must minister. The vital
fluid of the community, its life’s blood, must pass so
continuously from the common will to the law and from
the law to the common will that a perfect circulation
will be established. We do not “discover” legal principles
which it then behooves us to burn candles before
forever, but legal principles are the outcome of our daily
life. Our law therefore cannot be based on “fixed” principles:
our law must be intrinsic in the social process.</p>

<p class="c013">There has been a distinction made between legal principles
<span class="pageno" id="Page_132">132</span>and the application of these principles: legal principles
partook of the nature of the absolute, and to our
high-priests, the lawyers, fell the privilege of applying
them. But this is an artificial distinction. If our methods
could be such that the energy of lawyers, which now
often goes in making the concrete instance and the legal
principle in some way (by fiction, or twisting, or “interpreting”)
fit each other, could help evolve day by day
a crescent law which is the outcome of our life as it is to
be applied to our life, an enormous amount of energy
would be saved for the development of our American
people. It is static law and our reverence for legal
abstractions which has produced “privilege.” It is dynamic
law, as much as anything else, which will bring us
the new social order.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: Law should not be a “body” of knowledge;
it should be revitalized anew at every moment.
Our judges cannot administer law by knowing law
alone. They have to be so closely in touch with a living,
growing society, so at one with the conceptions that are
being evolved by that society that their interpretations
will be the method by which our so-called “body of law”
shall indeed be alive and grow in correspondence with
the growth of society. This is what gives to our American
supreme courts their large powers, and makes us
choose for judges not only men who understand law
and who can be trusted for accurate interpretation, but
men who have a large comprehension of our country’s
needs, wide conceptions of social justice, and who have
creative minds—who can make legal interpretation contribute
to the structure of our government.<a id="r62"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f62"><sup>[62]</sup></a> The modern
<span class="pageno" id="Page_133">133</span>lawyer must see, amidst all the complexity of the twentieth-century
world, where we are tending, what our true
purpose is, and the part law can take in making manifest
that purpose. The modern lawyer must create a
new system of service. A living law we demand to-day—this
is always the law of the given condition, never
a
<span class="pageno" id="Page_134">134</span>“rule.”</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_135">135</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="pt_2"><span class="sc">Part II</span><br/> <br/>THE TRADITIONAL DEMOCRACY</h2>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_136">136</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_16">XVI<br/> <br/>DEMOCRACY NOT “LIBERTY” AND “EQUALITY”: OUR POLITICAL DUALISM</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<div><span class="pageno" id="Page_137">137</span></div>
<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">
THE purpose of this book is to indicate certain
changes which must be made in our political
methods in order that the group principle,
the most fruitful principle of association we have yet
found, shall have free play in our political life. In
<a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a> we shall devote ourselves specifically to that purpose.
Here let us examine some of our past notions of
democracy and then trace the growth of true democracy
in America.</p>

<p class="c013">Democracy has meant to many “natural” rights,
“liberty” and “equality.” The acceptance of the group
principle defines for us in truer fashion those watchwords
of the past. If my true self is the group-self, then my
only rights are those which membership in a group
gives me. The old idea of natural rights postulated the
particularist individual; we know now that no such
person exists. The group and the individual come into
existence simultaneously: with this group-man appear
group-rights. Thus man can have no rights apart from
society or independent of society or against society.
Particularist rights are ruled out as everything particularist
is ruled out. When we accept fully the principle
of rights involved in the group theory of association, it
will change the decisions of our courts, our state constitutions,
and all the concrete machinery of government.
The truth of the whole matter is that our only concern
with “rights” is not to protect them but to create them.
Our efforts are to be bent not upon guarding the rights
<span class="pageno" id="Page_138">138</span>which Heaven has showered upon us, but in creating all
the rights we shall ever have.<a id="r63"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f63"><sup>[63]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">As an understanding of the group process abolishes
“individual rights,” so it gives us a true definition of
liberty. We have seen that the free man is he who actualizes
the will of the whole. I have no liberty except as
an essential member of a group. The particularist idea
of liberty was either negative, depending on the removal
of barriers, or it was quantitative, something which I
had left over after the state had restrained me in every
way it thought necessary. But liberty is not measured
by the number of restraints we do not have, but by the
number of spontaneous activities we do have. Law and
liberty are not like the two halves of this page, mutually
exclusive—one is involved in the other. One does not
decrease as the other increases. Liberty and law go
hand in hand and increase together in the larger synthesis
of life we are here trying to make.</p>

<p class="c013">We see that to obey the group which we have helped
to make and of which we are an integral part is to be
free because we are then obeying ourself. Ideally the
state is such a group, actually it is not, but it depends
upon us to make it more and more so. The state must
be no external authority which restrains and regulates
me, but it must be myself acting as the state in every
smallest detail of life. Expression, not restraint, is always
the motive of the ideal state.</p>

<p class="c013">There has been long a kind of balance theory prevalent:
everything that seems to have to do with the one
is put on one side, everything that has to do with the
many, on the other, and one side is called individuality
and freedom, and the other, society, constraint, authority.
Then the balancing begins: how much shall
<span class="pageno" id="Page_139">139</span>we give up on one side and how much on the other to
keep the beautiful equilibrium of our daily life? How
artificial such balancing sounds! We are beginning to
know now that our freedom depends not on the weakness
but on the strength of our government, our government
being the expression of a united people. We are freer
under our present sanitary laws than without them; we
are freer under compulsory education than without it.
A highly organized state does not mean restriction of
the individual but his greater liberty. The individual
is restricted in an unorganized state. A greater degree
of social organization means a more complex, a richer,
broader life, means more opportunity for individual
effort and individual choice and individual initiative.
The test of our liberty is not the number of limitations
put upon the powers of the state. The state is not an
extra-will. If we are the state we welcome Our liberty.</p>

<p class="c013">But liberty on the popular tongue has always been
coupled with equality, and this expression too needs
revaluation. The group process shows us that we are
equal from two points of view: first, I am equal to
every one else as one of the necessary members of the
group; secondly, each of these essential parts is the tap
from an infinite supply—in every man lives an infinite
possibility. But we must remember that there are no
mechanical, no quantitative equalities. Democracy in
fact insists on what are usually thought of as inequalities.
Of course I am not “as good as you”—it would
be a pretty poor world if I were, that is if you were no
better than I am. Democracy without humility is inconceivable.
The hope of democracy is in its inequalities.
The only real equality I can ever have is to fill my
place in the whole at the same time that every other
man is filling his place in the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">Much of our present class hatred comes from a distorted
<span class="pageno" id="Page_140">140</span>view of equality. This doctrine means to many
that I have as much “right” to things as any one else,
and therefore if I see any one having more things than
I have, it is proper to feel resentment against that person
or class. Much legislation, therefore, is directed to
lopping off here and there. But such legislation is a
negative and therefore non-constructive interpretation
of equality. The trouble with much of our reform is
that it is based on the very errors which have brought
about the evils it is fighting. The trade-unionists say
that the courts give special privileges to employers and
that they do not have equal rights. But this is just the
complaint of the employers: that the unionists are doing
them out of their time-honored equal rights.<a id="r64"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f64"><sup>[64]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Our distorted ideas of rights and liberty and equality
have been mixed up with our false conception of the
state, with the monstrous fallacy of man <i>vs.</i> the state.
But as we now see that the individual and society are
different aspects of the same process, so we see that the
citizen and the state are one, that their interests are
identical, that their aims are identical, that they are
absolutely bound up together. Our old political dualism
is now disappearing. The state does not exist for the
individual or the individual for the state: we do not
exalt the state and subordinate the individual or, on the
other hand, apotheosize the individual and give him
the state as his “servant.” <em>The state is not the servant of
the people.</em> The state must <em>be</em> the people before it can
reach a high degree of effective accomplishment. The
state is one of the collective aspects of the individual;
<span class="pageno" id="Page_141">141</span>the individual is from one point of view the distributive
aspect of the state. The non-existence of self-sufficing
individuals gives us the whole of our new theory of
democracy. Those who govern and those who are governed
are merely two aspects of the common will. When
we have a state truly representative of our collective
citizenship, then the fear of the state will disappear because
the antithesis between the individual and the state
will have disappeared.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: our present idea of the state is that it is
not something outside ourselves, that it must flow out
from ourselves and control our social life. But it must
“control” our life by expressing it. The state is always
the great Yes, not the great No. Liberty and restraint
are not opposed, because ideally the expression of the
social will in restraint <em>is</em> our freedom. The state has a
higher function than either restraining individuals or
protecting individuals. It is to have a great forward
policy which shall follow the collective will of the people,
a collective will which embodied through our state, in
our life, shall be the basis of a progress yet undreamed
of. When we can give up the notion of individual rights,
we shall have taken the longest step forward in our
political development. When we can give up the idea
of national rights—but it is too soon to talk of that yet.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_142">142</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_17">XVII<br/> <br/>DEMOCRACY NOT THE MAJORITY: OUR POLITICAL FALLACY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">IF many people have defined democracy as liberty
and equal rights, others have defined it as “the
ascendancy of numbers,” as “majority rule.” Both
these definitions are particularistic. Democracy means
the will of the whole, but the will of the whole is not
necessarily represented by the majority, nor by a two-thirds
or three-quarters vote, nor even by a unanimous
vote; majority rule is democratic when it is approaching
not a unanimous but an integrated will. We have seen
that the adding of similarities does not produce the
social consciousness; in the same way the adding of
similar votes does not give us the political will. We
have seen that society is not an aggregation of units, of
men considered one by one; therefore we understand
that the will of the state is not discovered by counting.<a id="r65"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f65"><sup>[65]</sup></a>
This means a new conception of politics: it means that
the organization of men in small, local groups must be
the next form which democracy takes. Here the need
and will of every man and woman can appear and mingle
with the needs and wills of all to produce an all-will.
Thus will be abolished the reign of numbers.</p>

<p class="c013">A crude view of democracy says that when the working-people
realize their power they can have what they
want, since, their numbers being so great, they can out-vote
other classes. But the reason the working-people
have not already learned something so very obvious is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_143">143</span>because it is not true—<em>we are never to be ruled by numbers
alone</em>.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, a fatal defect in majority rule is that by
its very nature it abolishes itself. Majority rule must
inevitably become minority rule: the majority is too
big to handle itself; it organizes itself into committees—Committee
of Fifty, Fifteen, Three—which in their
turn resolve themselves into a committee of one, and
behold—the full-fledged era of bosses is at hand, with
the “consent of the governed” simply because the governed
are physically helpless to govern themselves.
Many men want majority rule so that they can be this
committee of one; some of our most worthy citizens are
incipient Greek tyrants longing to give us of their best—tyranny.</p>

<p class="c013">Many working-men are clamoring for majority rule
in industry, yet we know how often in their own organizations
the rule of the many becomes the rule of the few.
If “industrial democracy” is to mean majority rule, let
us be warned by our experience of it in politics—it
will rend whoever dallies with it.</p>

<p class="c013">Yet it will be objected, “But what other means under
the sun is there of finding the common will except by
counting votes?” We see already here and there signs
of a new method. In many committees, boards and
commissions we see now a reluctance to take action
until all agree; there is a feeling that somehow, if we
keep at it long enough, we can unify our ideas and our
wills, and there is also a feeling that such unification of
will has value, that our work will be vastly more effective
in consequence. How different from our old methods
when we were bent merely upon getting enough on our
side to carry the meeting with us. Some one has said,
“We count heads to save breaking them.” We are
beginning to see now that majority rule is only a clumsy
<span class="pageno" id="Page_144">144</span>makeshift until we shall devise ways of getting at the
genuine collective thought. We have to assume that we
have this while we try to approximate it. We are not
to circumvent the majority, but to aim steadily at getting
the majority will nearer and nearer to a true collective
will.</p>

<p class="c013">This may sound absurdly unlike the world as mainly
constituted. Is this the way diplomats meet? Is this
the way competing industrial interests adjust their differences?
Not yet, but it must be. And what will help
us more than anything else is just to get rid of the idea
that we ever meet to get votes. The corruption in city
councils, state legislatures, Congress, is largely the outcome
of the idea that the getting of votes is the object
of our meeting. The present barter in votes would not
take place if the unimportance of votes was once clearly
seen.</p>

<p class="c013">Even now so far as a majority has power it is not by
the brute force of numbers; it is because there has been
a certain amount of unifying; it has real power directly
in proportion to the amount of unifying. The composition
of a political majority depends at present partly on
inheritance and environment (which includes sentiment
and prejudice), partly on the mass-induced idea (the
spread of thought and feeling throughout a community
by suggestion), and partly on some degree of integration
of the different ideas and the different forces of that
particular society. Its power is in proportion to the
amount of this integration. When we use the expression
“artificial majority” we mean chiefly one which
shows little integration, and we have all seen how quickly
such majorities tend to melt away when the artificial
stimulus of especially magnetic leadership or of an especially
catchy and jingoistic idea is withdrawn. Moreover
a majority meaning a preponderance of votes can
<span class="pageno" id="Page_145">145</span>easily be controlled by a party or an “interest”; majorities
which represent unities are not so easily managed.
Group organization is, above everything else perhaps,
to prevent the manipulation of helpless majorities.</p>

<p class="c013">But “helpless majority” may sound amusing to those
who are telling us of the tyranny of majorities. From
one point of view indeed majority rule tends to become
majority tyranny, so we do not want a majority in either
case, either as a tyrant or as an inert mass. But those
who talk of the tyranny of majorities are usually those
who are advocating the “rights of minorities.” If it is
necessary to expose the majority fallacy, it is equally
necessary to show that the present worship of minorities
in certain quarters is also unsound. There is no
inherent virtue in a minority. If as a matter of fact we
cannot act forcefully without a certain amount of complacency,
then perhaps it is a good thing for those in a
minority to flatter themselves that of twenty people
nine are more apt to be right than eleven. It may be
one of those false assumptions more useful than a true
one, and in our pragmatic age we shall not deny its
value. Still sour grapes hang sometimes just as high
and no higher than the majority, and it seems possible
to find a working assumption that will work even better
than this. In fact the assumption that the minority is
always right is just as much an error as the assumption
that the majority is always right. The right is not with
the majority or minority because of preponderance of
numbers or because of lack of preponderance of numbers.</p>

<p class="c013">But many people tell us seriously that this is not a
question of opinion at all, but of fact: all the great reforms
of the past, they say, whose victories are now our
common heritage, were inaugurated by an intelligent
and devoted few. You can indeed point to many causes
led by a faithful minority triumphing in the end over a
<span class="pageno" id="Page_146">146</span>numerical and inert majority, but this minority was
usually a majority of those who thought on the subject
at all.</p>

<p class="c013">But all talk of majority and minority is futile. It is
evident that we must not consider majority versus
minority, but only the methods by which unity is attained.
Our fetich of majorities has held us back, but
most of the plans for stopping the control of majorities
look to all kinds of bolstering up of minorities. This
keeps majorities and minorities apart, whereas they
have both one and only use for us—their contribution
to the all-will. Because such integration must always
be the ideal in a democracy, we cannot be much interested
in those methods for giving the minority more
power on election day. The integration must begin
further back in our life than this.</p>

<p class="c013">I know a woman of small school education, but large
native intelligence, who spends her time between her
family and the daily laundry work she does to support
that family, who, when she goes to her Mothers’ Club
at the “School Centre” penetrates all the superficialities
she may find there, and makes every other woman go
home with higher standards for her home, her children
and herself. The education of children, the opportunities
of employment for girls and boys, sanitation,
housing, and all the many questions which touch one’s
everyday life are considered in a homely way on those
Thursday afternoons. Sometime these women will vote
on these questions, but a true intermingling of majority
and minority will have taken place before election day.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, while representation of the minority, as
proportional representation,<a id="r66"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f66"><sup>[66]</sup></a> is always an interesting
experiment, just because it is a method of representation
<span class="pageno" id="Page_147">147</span>and not a mode of association the party can circumvent
it. We are told that minority representation tried
in the lower house of the Illinois legislature has been
completely subverted to their own ends by the politicians.
And also that in Belgium, where proportional
representation has been introduced, this system has
become a tool in the hands of the dominant party. No
electoral or merely representative method can save us.</p>

<p class="c013">Representation is not the main fact of political life;
the main concern of politics is <em>modes of association</em>.
We do not want the rule of the many or the few; we must
find that method of political procedure by which majority
and minority ideas may be so closely interwoven
that we are truly ruled by the will of the whole. We
shall have democracy only when we learn to produce
this will through group organization—when young men
are no longer lectured to on democracy, but when they
are made into the stuff of democracy.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_148">148</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_18">XVIII<br/> <br/>DEMOCRACY NOT THE CROWD: OUR POPULAR DELUSION</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">WHEN we define democracy as the “rule of
the whole,” this is usually understood as the
rule of all, and unless we fully understand
the meaning of “all,” we run the danger of falling a
victim to the crowd fallacy. The reaction to our long
years of particularism, of “individual rights” and “liberty,”
which led to special privilege and all the evils in
its train, has brought many to the worship of the crowd.
Walt Whitman sang of men “en masse.” Many of our
recent essayists and poets and novelists idealize the
crowd. Miss Jane Harrison in her delightful volume,
“Alpha and Omega,” says, “Human life is lived to the
full only in and through the herd.” There is an interesting
group of young poets in France<a id="r67"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f67"><sup>[67]</sup></a> who call themselves
Unanimistes because they believe in the union of all, that
an “Altogetherness” is the supreme fact of life. Mr.
Ernest Poole in “The Harbor” glorifies the crowd, and the
New York “<cite>Tribune</cite>” said of this book, “‘The Harbor’
is the first really notable novel produced by the New
Democracy,” thus identifying the new democracy with
the crowd. Another writer, looking at our present social
<span class="pageno" id="Page_149">149</span>and political organization and finding it based largely on
class and therefore unsound, also leaps to the conclusion
that our salvation rests not on this individual or
that, this class or that, this body of people or that, but
on all together, on “this mass-life, seething, tumultuous,
without compass or guide or will or plan.”</p>

<p class="c013">This school is doing good service in leading us from the
few or the many to the all, in preaching that the race
contains within itself the power of its own advancement;
but this power which the race contains within itself is
not got through its being a crowd, “without guide or
will or plan,” but just because it contains the potentialities
of guide, will, plan, all within itself, through its
capability of being a true society, that is, through its
capability of adopting group methods. It is in the group
that we get that complex interpenetration which means
both modification and adjustment and at the same time
coöperation and fulfilment. The group process, not the
crowd or the herd, is the social process. Out of the
intermingling, interacting activities of men and women
surge up the forces of life: powers are born which we
had not dreamed of, ideas take shape and grow, forces
are generated which act and react on each other. This
is the dialectic of life. But this upspringing of power
from our hidden sources is not the latent power of the
mass but of the group. It is useless to preach “togetherness”
until we have devised ways of making our togetherness
fruitful, until we have thought out the methods of a
genuine, integrated togetherness. Anything else is indeed
“blubbering sentimentality,” as Bismarck defined
democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">But there are two sets of people who are victims of
the crowd fallacy: those who apotheosize the crowd and
those who denounce the crowd; both ignore the group.
The latter fear the crowd because they see in the crowd
<span class="pageno" id="Page_150">150</span>the annihilation of the individual. They are opposed
to what they call collective action because they say that
this is herd action and does not allow for individual
initiative. We are told, “Man loses his identity in a
crowd,” “The crowd obliterates the individual mind.”
Quite true, but these writers do not see that the crowd
is not the only form of association, that man may belong
to a group rather than to a crowd, and that a group
fulfils, not wipes out his individuality. The collective
action of the group not only allows but consists of individual
initiative, of an individual initiative that has
learned how to be part of a collective initiative.</p>

<p class="c013">Collective thought, moreover, is often called collective
mediocrity. But the collective thought evolved by
the group is not collective mediocrity. On the contrary
there is always a tendency for the group idea to express
the largest degree of psychic force there is in a group,
ideally it would always do so. Herein lies the difference
between the group idea and the mass idea. When we
hear it stated as a commonplace of human affairs that
combined action is less intelligent than individual action,
we must point out that it all depends upon whether it is
a crowd combination or a group combination. The insidious
error that democracy means the “average” is
at the root of much of our current thought.</p>

<p class="c013">The confusion of democratic rule and mass rule, the
identification of the people with the crowd, has led many
people to denounce democracy. One writer, thinking
the collective man and the crowd man the same, condemns
democracy because of his condemnation of the
crowd man. Another speaks of “the crowd-mind or
the state,” and therefore abandons the state. All
these writers think that the more democracy, the more
complete the control of the crowd. Our faith in democracy
means a profound belief that this need not be
<span class="pageno" id="Page_151">151</span>true. Moreover this idea that the crowd man must
necessarily be the unit of democracy has led many to
oppose universal suffrage because they have seen it as
a particularist suffrage, giving equal value, they say,
to the enlightened and the unenlightened. True democracy
frees us from such particularist point of view. It is
the group man, not the crowd man, who must be the unit
of democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">The philosophy of the all is supposed, by its advocates,
to be opposed to the philosophy of the individual,
but it is interesting to notice that the crowd theory and
the particularistic theory rest on the same fallacy, namely,
looking on individuals one by one: the crowd doctrine
is an attempt to unite mechanically the isolated individuals
we have so ardently believed in. This is the
danger of the crowd. The crowd idea of sovereignty is
thoroughly atomistic. This is sometimes called an era
of crowds, sometimes an era of individuals: such apparent
opposition of judgment need not confuse us, the
crowd spirit and the particularistic spirit are the same;
that spirit will continue to corrupt politics and disrupt
society until we replace it by the group spirit.</p>

<p class="c013">The crowd theory, like the particularist doctrine, has
been strengthened by the upholders of the imitation
theory of society. Many of our political as well as our
sociological writers have seen life as some exceptional
individual suggesting and the crowd following without
reasoning, without effort of mind or will. Even Bagehot,
who did so much to set us in the right way of thinking,
overemphasizes the part of imitation. What he says
of the “imitative part of our natures” is indeed true,
but by not mentioning the creative part of our natures
more explicitly, he keeps himself in the crowd school.</p>

<p class="c013">It is true that at present the people are to a large
extent a mass led by those who suggest. The suggestion
<span class="pageno" id="Page_152">152</span>and imitation of sociology are the leading and following
of politics—the leadership of the boss and the following
of the mass. The successful politician is one who understands
crowds and how to dominate them. He appeals
to the emotions, he relies on repetition, he invents catch
phrases. The crowd follows. As long as the corner-stone
of our political philosophy is the theory that the
individual originates and society accepts, of course any
man who can get the people to “accept” will do so.
This is the fallacy at the foundation of our political
structure. When we have a genuine democracy, we
shall not have the defective political machinery of the
present, but some method by which people will be able
not to accept or reject but to create group or whole ideas,
to produce a genuine collective will. Because we have
invented some governmental machinery by which clever
politicians can rule with the entirely artificial “assent”
of their constituencies, does not mean that we know anything
about democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">It is the ignoring of the group which is retarding our
political development. A recent writer on political
science says that a study of the interaction between
individual and crowd is the basis of politics, and that
“the will of nations or states is the sum of individual
wills fashioned in accordance with crowd psychology.”
In so far as this is true it is to be steadily opposed. Many
writers imply that we must either believe in homogeneity,
similarity, uniformity (the herd, the crowd), or lose
the advantages of fellowship in order to discover and
assert our own particularistic ideals. But our alternatives
are not the individual and the crowd: the choice
is not between particularism with all its separatist tendencies,
and the crowd with its levelling, its mediocrity,
its sameness, perhaps even its hysteria; there is the
neglected group. Democracy will not succeed until
<span class="pageno" id="Page_153">153</span>assemblages of people are governed consciously and deliberately
by group laws. We read, “No idea can conquer
until a crowd has inscribed it on its banner.” I
should say, “No idea can finally conquer which has not
been created by those people who inscribe it on their
banner.” The triumph of ideas will never come by
crowds. Union, not hypnotism, is the law of development.
There can be no real spiritual unity in the mass
life, only in the group life.</p>

<p class="c013">Whether the people of America shall be a crowd, under
the laws of suggestion and imitation, or follow the laws
of the group, is the underlying problem of to-day.</p>

<p class="c013">The promise for the future is that there now is in
associations of men an increasing tendency for the laws
of the group rather than the laws of the crowd to govern.
Our most essential duty to the future is to see that that
tendency prevail. As we increase the conscious functioning
of the group we shall inevitably have less and
less of the unconscious response, chauvinists will lose
their job, and party bosses will have to change their
tactics. People as a matter of fact are not as suggestible
as formerly. Men are reading more widely and they
are following less blindly what they read.</p>

<p class="c013">This largely increased reading, due to reduction in
price, spread of railroads, rural delivery, and lessening
hours of industry, is often spoken of as making men more
alike in their views. Tarde spoke of the “public,” which
he defined as the people sitting at home reading newspapers,
as a mental collectivity because of this supposed
tendency. Christensen confirms this when he says that
the people reading the newspapers are “a scattered
crowd.” The usually accepted opinion is that the daily
press is making us more and more into crowds, but that
is not my experience. A man with his daily paper may
be obeying the group law or the crowd law as he unites
<span class="pageno" id="Page_154">154</span>his own thoughts with the thoughts of others or as he
is merely amenable to suggestion from others, and it
seems to me we see a good deal of the former process.
The newspaper brings home to us vividly what others
are feeling and thinking. It offers many suggestions;
we see less and less tendency to “swallow these whole,”
the colloquial counterpart of the technical “imitation.”
These suggestions are freely criticized, readers do a
good deal of thinking and the results are fairly rational.
The reader more and more I believe is selecting, is unifying
difference. The result of all this is that men’s minds
are becoming more plastic, that they are deciding less
by prejudice and hypnotism and more by judgment. And
it must be remembered that a man is not necessarily
a more developed person because he rejects his newspaper’s
theories than if he accepts them; the developed
man is the group man and the group man neither accepts
nor rejects, but joins his own thought with that of all he
reads to make new thought. The group man is never
sterile, he always brings forth.<a id="r68"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f68"><sup>[68]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Democracy can never mean the domination of the
crowd. The helter-skelter strivings of an endless number
of social atoms can never give us a fair and ordered
world. It may be true that we have lived under the
domination either of individuals or of crowds up to the
present time, but now is the moment when this must be
deliberately challenged. The party boss must go, the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_155">155</span>wise men chosen by the reform associations must go,
the crowd must be abandoned. The idea of the All has
gripped us—but the idea has not been made workable,
we have yet to find the way. We have said, “The people
must rule.” We now ask, “How are they to rule?” It
is the technique of democracy which we are seeking. We
shall find it in group organization.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_156">156</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_19">XIX<br/> <br/>THE TRUE DEMOCRACY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">DEMOCRACY is the rule of an interacting, interpermeating
whole. The present advocates of
democracy have, therefore, little kinship with
those ardent writers of the past who when they said they
believed in the people were thinking of working-men
only. A man said to me once, “I am very democratic,
I thoroughly enjoy a good talk with a working-man.”
What in the world has that to do with democracy?
Democracy is faith in humanity, not faith in “poor”
people or “ignorant” people, but faith in every living
soul. Democracy does not enthrone the working-man,
it has nothing to do with sympathy for the “lower
classes”; the champions of democracy are not looking
down to raise any one up, they recognize that all men
must face each other squarely with the knowledge that
the give-and-take between them is to be equal.</p>

<p class="c013">The enthusiasts of democracy to-day are those who
have caught sight of a great spiritual unity which is
supported by the most vital trend in philosophical
thought and by the latest biologists and social psychologists.
It is, above all, what we have learnt of the
psychical processes of association which makes us believe
in democracy. Democracy is every one building
the single life, not my life and others, not the individual
and the state, but my life bound up with others, the individual
which <em>is</em> the state, the state which <em>is</em> the individual.
“When a man’s eye shall be single”—do we
quite know yet what that means? Democracy is the
fullest possible acceptance of the single life.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_157">157</span>Thus democracy, although often considered a centrifugal
tendency, is rather a centripetal force. Democracy
is not a spreading out: it is not the extension of the
suffrage—its merely external aspect—it is a drawing
together; it is the imperative call for the lacking parts
of self. It is the finding of the one will to which the will
of every single man and woman must contribute. We
want women to vote not that the suffrage may be extended
to women but that women may be included in
the suffrage: we want what they may have to add to
the whole. Democracy is an infinitely including spirit.
We have an instinct for democracy because we have an
instinct for wholeness; we get wholeness only through
reciprocal relations, through infinitely expanding reciprocal
relations. Democracy is really neither extending nor
including merely, but creating wholes.</p>

<p class="c013">This is the primitive urge of all life. This is the true
nature of man. Democracy must find a form of government
that is suited to the nature of man and which will
express that nature in its manifold relations. Or rather
democracy is the self-creating process of life appearing
as the true nature of man, and through the activity of
man projecting itself into the visible world in fitting form
so that its essential oneness will declare itself. Democracy
then is not an end, we must be weaving all the time the
web of democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">The idea of democracy as representing the all-will
gives us a new idea of aristocracy. We believe in the
few but not as opposed to the many, only as included in
all. This makes a tremendous change in political thought.
We believe in the influence of the good and the wise, but
they must exert their influence within the social process;
it must be by action and reaction, it must be by a subtle
permeation, it must be through the sporting instinct to
take back the ball which one has thrown. The wise can
<span class="pageno" id="Page_158">158</span>never help us by standing on one side and trying to get
their wisdom across to the unwise. The unwise can
never help us (what has often been considered the most
they could do for the world) by a passive willingness for
the wise to impose their wisdom upon them. We need
the intermingling of all in the social process. We need
our imperfections as well as our perfections. So we offer
what we have—our unwisdom, our imperfections—on
the altar of the social process, and it is only by this social
process that the wonderful transmutation can take place
which makes of them the very stuff of which the Perfect
Society is to be made. Imperfection meets imperfection,
or imperfection meets perfection; it is the <em>process</em>
which purifies, not the “influence” of the perfect on the
imperfect. This is what faith in democracy means.
Moreover, there is the ignorance of the ignorant and the
ignorance of the wise; there is the wisdom of the wise
and the wisdom of the ignorant. Both kinds of ignorance
have to be overcome, one as much as the other;
both kinds of wisdom have to prevail, one as much as
the other.</p>

<p class="c013">In short, there is not a static world for the wise to
influence. This truth is the blow to the old aristocracy.
But we need the wise within this living, moving whole,
this never-ceasing action and interaction, and this truth
is the basis of our new conception of aristocracy.
Democracy is not opposed to aristocracy—it includes
aristocracy.</p>

<p class="c013">As biology shows us nature evolving by the power
within itself, so social psychology shows us society evolving
by the power of its own inner forces, of <em>all</em> its inner
forces. There is no passive material within it to be
guided by a few. There is no dead material in a true
democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">When people see the confusion of our present life, its
<span class="pageno" id="Page_159">159</span>formlessness and planlessness, the servile following of
the crowd, the ignorance of the average man, his satisfaction
in his ignorance, the insignificance of the collective
life, its blindness and its hopelessness, they say
they do not believe in democracy. But this is not democracy.
The so-called evils of democracy—favoritism,
bribery, graft, bossism—are the evils of our lack of
democracy, of our party system and of the abuses which
that system has brought into our representative government.
It is not democracy which is “on trial,” as is so
often said, but it is we ourselves who are on trial. We
have been constantly trying to see what democracy
meant from the point of view of institutions, we have
never yet tried to see what it meant from the point of
view of men.</p>

<p class="c013">If life could be made mechanical, our method would be
correct, but as mechanics is creature and life its superabounding
creator, such method is wholly wrong. When
people say that the cure for the evils of democracy is
more democracy, they usually mean that while we have
some “popular” institutions, we have not enough, and
that when we get enough “popular” institutions, our
inadequacies will be met. But no form is going to fulfil
our needs. This is important to remember just now,
with all the agitation for “democratic control.” You
cannot establish democratic control by legislation: it
is not democratic control to allow the people to assent
to or refuse a war decided on by diplomats; there is only
one way to get democratic control—by people learning
how to evolve collective ideas. The essence of democracy
is not in institutions, is not even in “brotherhood”;
it is in that organizing of men which makes most sure,
most perfect, the bringing forth of the common idea.
Democracy has one task only—to free the creative spirit
of man. This is done through group organization. We
<span class="pageno" id="Page_160">160</span>are sometimes told that democracy is an attitude and
must grow up in the hearts of men. But this is not
enough. Democracy is a method, a scientific technique
of evolving the will of the people. For this reason the
study of group psychology is a necessary preliminary to
the study of democracy. Neither party bosses nor unscrupulous
capitalists are our undoing, but our own lack
of knowing how to do things together.</p>

<p class="c013">The startling truth that the war is bringing home to
many of us is that unity must be something more than
a sentiment, it must be an actual system of organization.
We are now beginning to see that if you want the
fruits of unity, you must <em>have</em> unity, a real unity, a
coöperative collectivism. Unity is neither a sentiment
nor an intellectual conception, it is a psychological process
produced by actual psychic interaction.</p>

<p class="c013">How shall we gain a practical understanding of this
essential unity of man? By practising it with the first
person we meet; by approaching every man with the
consciousness of the complexity of his needs, of the vastness
of his powers. Much is written of the power of
history and tradition in giving unity to a community
or nation. This has been overemphasized. If this were
the only way of getting unity, there would be little hope
for the future in America, where we have to make a unity
of people with widely differing traditions, and little hope
for the future in Europe where peace is unthinkable unless
the past can be forgotten and new ties made on the
basis of mutual understanding and mutual obligation.
To have democracy we must live it day by day. Democracy
is the actual commingling of men in order
that each shall have continuous access to the needs and
the wants of others. Democracy is not a form of government;
the democratic soul is born within the group and
then it develops its own forms.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_161">161</span>Democracy then is a great spiritual force evolving
itself from men, utilizing each, completing his incompleteness
by weaving together all in the many-membered
community life which is the true Theophany. The world
to-day is growing more spiritual, and I say this not in
spite of the Great War, but because of all this war has
shown us of the inner forces bursting forth in fuller and
fuller expression. The Great War has been the Great
Call to humanity and humanity is answering. It is breaking
down the ramparts to free the way for the entrance
of a larger spirit which is to fill every single being by
interflowing between them all. France, England, America—how
the beacon lights flash from one to the other—the
program of the British Labor Party, the speeches
of our American President, the news of the indomitable
courage of France—these are like the fires in Europe on
St. John’s Eve, which flash their signals from hill-top to
hill-top. Even the school children of France and America
write letters to each other. American men and
women are working for the reconstruction of France as
they would work for the reconstruction of their own
homes—and all this because we are all sharing the
same hope. A new faith is in our hearts. The Great
War is the herald of another world for men. The coming
of democracy is the spiritual rebirth. We have
been told that our physical birth and life are not all, that
we are to be born again of water and the spirit. Not indeed
of <em>water</em> and spirit, but of <em>blood</em> and spirit, are the
warring children of men, a groaning, growing humanity,
coming to the Great Rebirth.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_162">162</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_20">XX<br/> <br/>THE GROWTH OF DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE two problems of democracy to-day are: (1)
how to make the individual politically effective,
and (2) how to give practical force to
social policies. Both of these mean that the individual
is at last recognized in political life. The history of
democracy has been the history of the steady growth
towards individualism. The hope of democracy rests
on the individual. It is all one whether we say that
democracy is the development of the social consciousness,
or that democracy is the development of individualism;
until we have become in some degree socially conscious
we shall not realize the value of the individual. It is not
insignificant that a marked increase in the appreciation
of social values has gone hand in hand with a growing
recognition of the individual.</p>

<p class="c013">From the Middle Ages the appreciation of the individual
has steadily grown. The Reformation in the sixteenth
century was an individualistic movement. The apotheosis
of the individual, however, soon led us astray, involving
as it did an entirely erroneous notion of the relation
of the individual to society, and gave us the false political
philosophy of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
Men thought of individuals as separate and then had to invent
fictions to join them, hence the social contract fiction.
The social contract theory was based on the idea of the
state as an aggregate of units; it therefore followed that
the rights of those units must be maintained. Thus individual
rights became a kind of contractual rights. And
during the nineteenth century, fostered by Bentham’s
<span class="pageno" id="Page_163">163</span>ideas of individual happiness, by the <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i> of the
Manchester school and the new industrial order, by Herbert
Spencer’s interpretations of the recent additions to
biological knowledge, by Mill, etc., the doctrine of “individual
rights” became more firmly entrenched. Government
interference was strenuously resisted, “individual”
freedom was the goal of our desire, “individual” competition
and the survival of the fittest the accredited method
of progress. The title of Herbert Spencer’s book, “The
Man versus the State,” implies the whole of this false
political philosophy built on an unrelated individual.</p>

<p class="c013">But during the latter part of the nineteenth century
there began to grow up, largely at first through the influence
of T. H. Green, influenced in his turn by Kant
and Hegel, an entirely different theory of the state.
The state was now not to be subordinate to the individual,
but it was to be the fulfilment of the individual.
Man was to get his rights and his liberty from membership
in society. Green had at once a large influence on
the political thought of England and America, and gradually,
with other influences, upon practical politics. The
growing recognition of the right and duty of the state to
foster the life of its members, so clearly and unequivocally
expressed in the social legislation of Lloyd George,
we see as early as the Education Act of 1870, the Factory
Act of 1878 (which systematized and extended previous
Factory Acts), and the various mines and collieries acts
from 1872.</p>

<p class="c013">I do not mean to imply that the growing activity of the
state was due entirely or mainly to the change of theory
in regard to the individual and the state; when the
disastrous results of <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i> were seen, then people
demanded state regulation of industry. Theory and practice
have acted and reacted on each other. Some one
must trace for us, step by step, the interaction of theory
<span class="pageno" id="Page_164">164</span>and practice in regard to the individual and his relation
to society, from the Middle Ages down to the present day.<a id="r69"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f69"><sup>[69]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">What has been the trend of our development in America?
Particularism was at its zenith when our government
was founded. Our growth has been away from
particularism and towards a true individualism.<a id="r70"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f70"><sup>[70]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">It is usual to say that the framers of our constitution
were individualists and gave to our government an individualistic
turn. We must examine this. They did safeguard
and protect the individual in his life and property,
they did make the bills of rights an authoritative part
of our constitutions, they did make it possible for individuals
to aggrandize themselves at the expense of society,
their ideal of justice was indeed of individual not
of social justice. And yet all this was negative. The
individual was given no large positive function. The
individual was feared and suspected. Our early constitutions
showed no faith in men: the Massachusetts
constitution expressly stated that it was not a government
of men. The law of the land was embodied in
written documents with great difficulty of amendment
just because the people were not trusted. As we look at
the crudities of the Declaration of Independence, as we
examine our aristocratic state constitutions, as we study
our restricted federal constitution, as we read the borrowed
philosophy of our early statesmen, we see very
little indication of modern democracy with its splendid
faith in man, but a tendency towards aristocracy and a
lack of real individualism on every side.</p>

<p class="c013">To be sure it was at the same time true that the government
was given no positive power. Every one was
<span class="pageno" id="Page_165">165</span>thoroughly frightened of governments which were founded
on status and resulted in arbitrary authority. The executive
power was feared, therefore it was so equipped as
to be unequal to its task; the legislative power was
feared, so the courts were given power over the legislatures,
were allowed to declare their acts valid or invalid;
the national government was feared, therefore Congress
was given only certain powers. Power was not granted
because no man and no institution was trusted. The will
to act could not be a motive force in 1789, because no
embodiment of the will was trusted; the framers of our
constitutions could not conceive of a kind of will which
could be trusted. Fear, not faith, suspicion not trust,
were the foundation of our early government. The government
had, therefore, no large formative function, it
did not look upon itself as a large social power. As the
individual was to be protected, the government was to
protect. All our thinking in the latter part of the eighteenth
century was rooted in the idea of a weak government;
this has been thought to show our individualism.<a id="r71"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f71"><sup>[71]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But our government as imagined by its founders did
not work.<a id="r72"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f72"><sup>[72]</sup></a> Our system of checks and balances gave no
<span class="pageno" id="Page_166">166</span>real power to any department. Above all there was no
way of fixing responsibility. A condition of chaos was
the result. Such complicated machinery was almost
unworkable; there was no way of getting anything done
under our official system. Moreover, the individual was
not satisfied with his function of being protected, he
wanted an actual share in the government. Therefore
an extra-official system was adopted, the party organization.
The two chief reasons for this adoption were:
(1) to give the individual some share in government,
(2) to give the government a chance to carry out definite
policies, to provide some kind of a unifying power.</p>

<p class="c013">What effect has party organization had on the individual
and on government? The domination of the party
gives no real opportunity to the individual: originality
is crushed; the aim of all party organization is to turn
out a well-running voting machine. The party is not interested
in men but in voters—an entirely different
matter. Party organization created artificial majorities,
but gave to the individual little power in or connection
with government. The basic weakness of party organization
is that the individual gets his significance only
through majorities. Any method which looks to the fulfilment
of the individual through the domination of
majorities is necessarily not only partial but false. The
present demand that the nation shall have the full power
of the individual is the heaviest blow that party organization
has ever received.</p>

<p class="c013">Now consider, on the other hand, what party organization
has done for the government. The powers of government
moved steadily to political bosses and business
corporations. Boss-rule, party domination and combinations
of capital filled in the gaps in the system of
government we inaugurated in the eighteenth century.
The marriage of business and politics, while it has been
<span class="pageno" id="Page_167">167</span>the chief factor in entrenching the party system, was the
outcome of that system, or rather it was the outcome of
the various unworkabilities of our official government.
The expansion of big business, with its control of politics,
evasion of law, was inevitable; we simply had no
machinery adequate to our need, namely, the development
of a vast, untouched continent. The urge of that
development was an overwhelming force which swept
irresistibly on, carrying everything before it, swallowing
up legal disability, creating for itself extra-legal methods.
We have now, therefore, a system of party organization
and political practice which subverts all our theories.
Theoretically the people have the power, but really the
government is the primaries, the conventions, the caucuses.
Officials hold from the party. Party politics
became corrupt because party government was irresponsible
government. The insidious power of the machine
is due to its irresponsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">The evils of our big business have not come because
Americans are prone to cheat, because they want to get
the better of their fellows, because their greed is inordinate,
their ambition domineering. Individuals have not
been to blame, but our whole system. It is the system
which must be changed. Our constitutions and laws
made possible the development of big business; our
courts were not “bought” by big business, but legal
decision and business practice were formed by the same
inheritance and tradition. The reformation of neither
will accomplish the results we wish, but the nation-wide
acceptance, through all classes and all interests, of a
different point of view.</p>

<p class="c013">The next step was the wave of reform that swept over
the country. The motive was excellent; the method
poor. The method was poor because the same method
was adopted which these reform movements were organized
<span class="pageno" id="Page_168">168</span>to fight, one based on pure crowd philosophy. It
was a curious case of astigmatism. The trouble was
that the reformers did not see accurately what they
were fighting; they were fighting essentially the non-recognition
of the individual, but they did not see this,
so they went on basing all their own work on the
non-appreciation of men. Their essential weakness was
the weakness of the party machine—all their efforts were
turned to the voter not the man. Their triumphs
were always the triumphs of the polls. Their methods
were principally three: change in the forms of government
(charters, etc.), the nomination of “good” men to
office, and exhortation to induce “the people” to elect
them.</p>

<p class="c013">The idea of “good” men in office was the fetich of
many reform associations. They thought that their job
was to find three or four “good” men and then once a
year to hypnotize the electorate to “do their duty” and
put these men into office, and then all would go well if
before another year three or four more good men could
be found. What a futile and childish idea which leaves
out of account the whole body of citizenship! It is only
through this main body of citizenship that we can have
a decent government and a sound social life. That is,
in other words, it is only by a genuine appreciation of
the individual, of every single individual, that there
can be any reform movement with strength and constructive
power. The wide-spread fallacy that good officials
make a good city is one which lies at the root of much
of our thinking and insidiously works to ruin our best
plans, our most serious efforts. This extraordinary belief
in officials, this faith in the panacea of a change of charters,
must go. If our present mechanical government is to
turn into a living, breathing, pulsing life, it must be composed
of an entire citizenship educated and responsible.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_169">169</span>This the reform associations now recognize, in some
cases partially, in some cases fully. The good government
association of to-day has a truer idea of its function.
The campaign for the election of city officials is
used as a means of educating the mass of citizens: besides
the investigation and publication of facts, there
is often a clear showing of the aims of government and
an enlightening discussion of method. Such associations
have always considered the interests of the city as a
whole; they have not appealed, like the party organizations,
to local sentiment.</p>

<p class="c013">I have spoken of the relation of the reform movement
of the last of the nineteenth century to the body of citizenship.
What was its relation to government? The
same spirit applied to government meant patching,
mending, restraining, but it did not mean constructive
work, it had not a formative effect on our institutions.
Against any institution that has to be guarded every
moment lest it do evil, there is a strong a priori argument
that it should not exist. This until recently has not been
sufficiently taken into account. Now, however, in the
beginning of the twentieth century, we see many evidences
that the old era of restraint is over and the constructive
period of reform begun. We see it, for instance,
in our Bureaus of Municipal Research; we see it in the
more progressive sections of our state constitutional
conventions. But the chief error of the nineteenth-century
reformers was not that they were reactionary, nor
that they were timid, nor that they were insincere, nor
that they were hedgers. They were wanting in neither
sincerity nor courage. Their error was simply that they
did not appreciate the value of the individual. Individualism
instead of being something we are getting away
from, is something we are just catching sight of.</p>

<p class="c013">And if our institutions were founded on a false political
<span class="pageno" id="Page_170">170</span>philosophy which taught “individual rights,” distorted
ideas of liberty and equality, and thought of man
versus the state, if our political development was influenced
by a false social psychology which saw the people
as a crowd and gave them first to the party bosses and
next to the social reformers, our whole material development
was dominated by a false economic philosophy
which saw the greatest good of all obtained by each
following his own good in his own way. This did not
mean the development of individuals but the crushing
of individuals—of all but a few. The Manchester
school of economics, which was bound to flourish extensively
under American conditions, combined with a
narrow legal point of view, which for a hundred years
interpreted our constitutions in accordance with an
antiquated philosophy and a false psychology, to make
particularism the dominant note in American life.</p>

<p class="c013">The central point of our particularism was the idea of
being let alone. First, the <em>individual</em> was to be let alone,
the pioneer on his reclaimed land or the pioneer of industry.
But when men saw that their gains would be greater
by some sort of combination, then the <em>trusts</em> were to be
let alone—freedom of contract was called liberty!
Our courts, completely saturated with this philosophy,
let the trusts alone. The interpretations of our courts,
our corrupt party organization, our institutions and our
social philosophy, hastened and entrenched the monopolistic
age. Natural rights meant property rights. The
power of single men or single corporations at the end
of the nineteenth century marked the height of our particularism,
of our subordination of the state to single
members. They were like <i lang="fr">pâté de foie gras</i> made by the
enlargement of the goose’s liver. It is usual to disregard
the goose. The result of our false individualism has
been non-conservation of our national resources, exploitation
<span class="pageno" id="Page_171">171</span>of labor, and political corruption. We see
the direct outcome in our slums, our unregulated industries,
our “industrial unrest,” etc.</p>

<p class="c013">But egotism, materialism, anarchy are not true individualism.
To-day, however, we have many evidences
of the steadily increasing appreciation of the individual
and a true understanding of his place in society, his relation
to the state. Chief among these are: (1) the movement
towards industrial democracy, (2) the woman
movement, (3) the increase of direct government, and
(4) the introduction of social programs into party
platforms. These are parallel developments from the
same root. What we have awakened to now is the importance
of every single man.</p>

<p class="c013">The first, the trend towards industrial democracy, will,
in its relation to the new state, be considered later. The
second, the woman movement, belongs to the past rather
than to the present. Its culmination has overrun the century
mark and makes what is really a nineteenth-century
movement seem as if it belonged to the twentieth. It
belongs to the past because it is merely the end of the
movement for the extension of the suffrage. Our suffrage
rested originally in many states on property distinctions;
in New Hampshire there was a religious and property
qualification,—only Protestant tax-payers could vote.
Gradually it became manhood suffrage, then the immigrants
were admitted, later the negroes, then Colorado
opened its suffrage to women, and now in thirteen states
women have the full suffrage. The essence of the woman
movement is not that women as women should have the
vote, but that women as individuals should have the
vote. There is a fundamental distinction here.</p>

<p class="c013">The third and fourth indications of the growth of
democracy, or the increase of individualism (I speak of
these always as synonymous)—the tendency towards
<span class="pageno" id="Page_172">172</span>more and more direct government and the introduction
of social programs into party platforms—will be considered
in the next chapter together with a third tendency
in American politics which is bound up with these two:
I refer to the increase of administrative responsibility.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">The theory of government based on individual rights
no longer has a place in modern political theory; it no
longer guides us entirely in legislation but has yielded
largely to a truer practice; yet it still occupies a large
place in current thought, in the speeches of our practical
politicians, in our institutions of government, and in
America in our law court decisions. This being so it is
important for us to look for the reasons. First, there
are of course always many people who trail along behind.
Secondly, partly through the influence of Green
and Bosanquet, the idea of contract has been slowly
fading away, and many people have been frightened at
its disappearance because Hegelianism, even in the modified
form in which it appears in English theory, <em>seems</em> to
enthrone the state and override the individual.<a id="r73"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f73"><sup>[73]</sup></a> Third,
the large influence which Tarde, Le Bon, and their followers
have had upon us with their suggestion and imitation
theories of society—theories based on a pure
particularism. The development of social and political
organization has been greatly retarded by this school
of sociology. Fourth, our economic development is still
associated in the minds of many with the theories of individual
rights.</p>

<p class="c013">A more penetrating analysis of society during recent
years, however, has uncovered the true conception of individualism
hidden from the first within the “individualistic”
movement. All through history we see the feeling
<span class="pageno" id="Page_173">173</span>out for the individual; there are all the false trails
followed and there are the real steps taken. The false
trails led to the individual rights of politics, the <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>
of economics and our whole false particularism.
The real steps have culminated in our ideas of to-day.
To substitute for the fictitious democracy of equal rights
and “consent of the governed,” the living democracy of
a united, responsible people is the task of the twentieth
century. We seek now the method.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_174">174</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_21">XXI<br/> <br/>AFTER DIRECT GOVERNMENT—WHAT?</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE have outgrown our political system. We
must face this frankly. We had, first, government
by law,<a id="r74"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f74"><sup>[74]</sup></a> second, government by
parties and big business, and all the time some sort of
fiction of the “consent of the governed” which we said
meant democracy. But we have never had government
by the people. The third step is to be the development
of machinery by which the fundamental ideas of the
people can be got at and embodied; further, by which
we can grow fundamental ideas; further still, by which
we can prepare the soil in which fundamental ideas can
grow. Direct government will we hope lead to this step,
but it cannot alone do this. How then shall it be supplemented?
Let us look at the movement for direct government
with two others closely connected with it—the
concentration of administrative responsibility and the
increase of social legislation—three movements which
are making an enormous change in American political life.
Then let us see if we can discover what idea it is necessary
to add to those involved in these three movements, in other
words what new principle is needed in modern politics.</p>

<p class="c013">We are at present trying to secure (1) a more efficient
government, and (2) a real not a nominal control of government
by the people. The tendency to transfer power
to the American citizenship, and the tendency towards
efficient government by the employment of experts and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_175">175</span>the concentration of administrative authority, are working
side by side in American political life to-day. These
two tendencies are not opposed, and if the main thesis
of this book has been proved, it is understood by this
time why they are not opposed. Democracy I have said
is not antithetical to aristocracy, but includes aristocracy.
And it does not include it accidentally, as it were, but
aristocracy is a necessary part of democracy. Therefore
administrative responsibility and expert service are
as necessary a part of genuine democracy as popular
control is a necessary accompaniment of administrative
responsibility. They are parallel in importance. Some
writers seem to think that because we are giving so much
power to our executives, we must safeguard our “liberty”
by giving at the same time ultimate authority to the
people. While this is of course so in a way, I believe a truer
way of looking at the matter is to see centralized responsibility
and popular control, not one dependent on the other,
but both as part of the same thing—our new democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">Both our city and our state governments are being
reorganized. We have long felt that city government
should be concentrated in the hands of a few experts.
The old idea that any honest citizen was fit for most public
offices is rapidly disappearing. Over three hundred
cities have adopted the commission form of government,
and there is a growing movement for the city-manager
plan. But at the same time we must have a
participant electorate. We can see three stages in our
thinking: (1) our early American democracy thought
that public offices could be filled by the average citizen;
(2) our reform associations thought that the salvation
of our cities depended on expert officials; (3) present
thinking sees the necessity of combining expert service
and an active electorate.<a id="r75"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f75"><sup>[75]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_176">176</span>The increasing number of states which are holding,
or are considering holding, constitutional conventions
for the reconstruction of state governments shows the
wide-spread dissatisfaction with our state machinery.
The principal object of nearly all of these conventions
is increased efficiency through concentration of
responsibility. In our fear of abuse of power there has
been no one to use power; we must change this if we
are to have administrative efficiency. Most of the
schemes for a reconstruction of state governments are
based on (1) concentration of executive leadership in
the hands of the governor, and (2) direct responsibility
to the electorate. The former implies appointment of
administrative officials by the governor, an executive
budget, and readjustment in the relation of executive
and legislative so that the governor can introduce and
defend bills. The latter necessitates the ability of the
electorate to criticize work done and plans proposed.</p>

<p class="c013">Therefore the tendency towards an effective responsibility
through the increased power of our executive
does not mean that less is required of citizens, but more.
To the initiative, referendum and recall is to be added
the general control by the people themselves of our state
policies. Executive leadership may reduce the power of
legislatures, but it will increase the power of the electorate
both directly and indirectly: indirectly by weakening
party organization, and directly by giving the people
more and more control. It has been suggested, for instance,
that in any dispute between governor and legislature
the people might be called on to decide, either
directly by passing on the proposed legislation itself, or
by a new election. At any rate ultimate control must
somehow be with the people. That this was not sufficiently
provided for in the New York constitution submitted
to the voters of New York a few years ago was one
<span class="pageno" id="Page_177">177</span>of the reasons for its rejection. What frightened the men
of New York was undoubtedly the increased power of the
state administrative without any corresponding increase
in democratic control. To increase at the same time democratic
control and administrative responsibility, while not
an easy thing to do, is the task of our new constitutions.</p>

<p class="c013">With regard to direct government we are at present
making two mistakes: first, in thinking that we can get
any benefit from it if it is operated from within the party
organization;<a id="r76"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f76"><sup>[76]</sup></a> secondly, in thinking that it is merely
to record, that it is based on counting, on the preponderance
of votes.</p>

<p class="c013">The question staring us in the face in American politics
to-day is—What possible good can direct government
do us if party organization remains in control?
The movement for direct primaries, popular choice of
United States senators, presidential primaries, initiative
and referendum, the recall etc., will bear little fruit unless
something is done at the same time to break the power
of the party. Many people tell us that our present
party system, with its method of caucuses, conventions,
bosses etc., has failed, and they are now looking to the
direct primary as their hope, but the direct primary in
itself will not free us from the tyranny of party rule.
Look at this much-lauded direct primary and see what
it is actually giving us: the political machines have
known from the beginning how to circumvent it, it often
merely increases the power of the boss, and at its best
it is accomplishing no integrating of the American people—the
real task of democracy. No development of party
machinery or reform of party machinery is going to give
us the will of the people, only a new method.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_178">178</span>Moreover, merely giving more power to the people does
not automatically reduce the hold of the party; some
positive measures must be taken if direct government
is not to fail exactly as representative government has
failed. The faith in direct government as a sure panacea
is almost pathetic when we remember how in the past
one stronghold after another has been captured by the
party. Much has been written by advocates of direct
government to show that it will destroy the arbitrary
power of the party, destroy its relation to big business,
etc., but we see little evidence of this. We all know, and
we can see every year if we watch the history of referendum
votes, that the party organization is quite able
to use “direct government” for its own ends. Direct
government worked by the machine will be subject to
much the same abuses as representative government.
And direct and representative government cannot be
synthesized by executive leadership alone. All that
is said in favor of the former may be true, but it can
never be made operative unless we are able to find some
way of breaking the power of the machine. Direct
government can be beneficial to American politics only
if accompanied by the organization of voters in non-partisan
groups for the production of common ideas
and a collective purpose. Of itself direct government
can never become the responsible government of a
people.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that direct government will never succeed
if operated from within the party organization, nor if
it is considered, as it usually is, merely a method by which
the people can accept or reject what is proposed to them.
Let us now look at the second point. We have seen that
party organization does not allow group methods, that
the party is a crowd: suggestion by the boss, imitation
by the mass, is the rule. But direct government also
<span class="pageno" id="Page_179">179</span>may and probably will be crowd government if it is
merely a means of counting. As far as direct government
can be given the technique of a genuine democracy, it
is an advance step in political method, but the trouble
is that many of its supporters do not see this necessity;
they have given it their adherence because of their belief
in majority rule, in their belief that to count one and
one and one is to get at the will of the people. But for
each to count as one means crowd rule—of course the
party captures us. Yet even if it did not, we do not
want direct government if we are to fall from party domination
into the tyranny of numbers. That every man
was to count as one was the contribution of the old psychology
to politics; the new psychology goes deeper and
further,—it teaches that each is to be the whole at one
point. This changes our entire conception of politics.
Voting at the polls is not to be the expression of one
man after another. My vote should not be my freak
will any more than it should be my adherence to party,
but my individual expression of the common will. The
particularist vote does not represent the individual will
because the evolution of the individual will is bound up
in a larger evolution. Therefore, <em>my duty as a citizen
is not exhausted by what I bring to the state; my test as a
citizen is how fully the whole can be expressed in or through
me</em>.</p>

<p class="c013">The vote in itself does not give us democracy—we
have yet to learn democracy’s method. We still think
too much of the solidarity of the vote; what we need
is solidarity of purpose, solidarity of will. To make my
vote a genuine part of the expression of the collective
will is the first purpose of politics; it is only through
group organization that the individual learns this lesson,
that he learns to be an effective political member. People
often ask, “Why is democracy so unprogressive?” It
<span class="pageno" id="Page_180">180</span>is just because we have not democracy in this sense. As
long as the vote is that of isolated individuals, the tendency
will be for us to have an unprogressive vote. This
state of things can be remedied, first, by a different
system of education, secondly, by giving men opportunities
to exercise that fundamental intermingling with
others which is democracy. To the consideration of
how this can be accomplished <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a> is mainly directed.</p>

<p class="c013">But I am making no proposal for some hard and fast
method by which every vote shall register the will of a
definite, fixed number of men rather than of one man.
I am talking of a new method of living <em>by</em> which the individual
shall learn to be part of social wholes, <em>through</em>
which he shall express social wholes. The individual
not the group must be the basis of organization. But
the individual is created by many groups, his vote cannot
express his relation to one group; it must ideally, I
have said, express the whole from his point of view,
actually it must express as much of the whole as the
variety of his group life makes possible.<a id="r77"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f77"><sup>[77]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">When shall we begin to understand what the ballot-box
means in our political life? <em>It creates nothing</em>—it
merely registers what is already created. If direct government
is to be more than ballot-box democracy it
must learn not to record what is on the surface, but to dig
down underneath the surface. No “democracy” which
is based on a preponderance of votes can ever succeed.
The essence of democracy is an educated and responsible
citizenship evolving common ideas and <em>willing</em> its own
social life. The dynamic thought is the thought which
represents the most complete synthesis. In art the influence
of a school does not depend upon the number of
its adherents, but upon the extent to which that school
represents a synthesis of thought. This is exactly so in
<span class="pageno" id="Page_181">181</span>politics. Direct government must create. It can do
this through group organization. We are at the cross-roads
now: shall we give the initiative and referendum
to a crowd or to an interpenetrating group?</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: the corruption of politics is due largely
to the conception of the people as a crowd. To change
this idea is, I believe, the first step in the reform of our
political life. Unless this is done before we make sweeping
changes in the mechanism of government, such
changes will not mean progress. If the people are a
crowd capable of nothing but imitation, what is the use
of all the direct government we are trying to bring about,
how can a “crowd” be considered capable of political
decisions? Direct government gives to every one the
right to express his opinion. The question is whether
that opinion is to be his particularist opinion or the
imitation of the crowd or the creation of the group. The
party has dominated us in the past chiefly because we
have truly believed the people to be a crowd. When we
understand the law of association as the law of psychic
interplay, then indeed shall we be on the way towards
the New Democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">Direct government will not succeed if it is operated
through the party organization; it will not succeed even
if separated from party control if it means the crowd in
another guise. To be successful direct government must
be controlled by some method not yet brought into practical
politics. When we have an organized electorate,
we shall begin to see the advantages of direct government.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">At the beginning of this chapter three closely related
movements in American politics were mentioned. The
third must now be considered—the introduction of
social programs into party platforms.</p>

<p class="c013">We have had three policies in legislation: (1) the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_182">182</span>let-alone policy,<a id="r78"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f78"><sup>[78]</sup></a> (2) the regulation policy, and now (3) the
constructive policy is just appearing.</p>

<p class="c013">In order to get away from the consequences of <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>,
we adopted, at the end of the nineteenth century,
an almost equally pernicious one, the regulation theory.
The error at the bottom of the “regulation” idea of
government is that people may be allowed to do as they
please (<i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>) until they have built up special
rules and privileges for themselves, and then they shall
be “regulated.” The regulation theory of government
is that we are to give every opportunity for efficiency
to come to the top in order that we shall get the benefit
of that efficiency, but at the same time our governmental
machinery is to be such that efficiency is to be shorn of
its power before it can do any harm—a sort of automatic
blow-off. Gauge your boiler (society) at what it
will stand without bursting, then when our ablest people
get to that point the blow-off will make society safe.</p>

<p class="c013">But the most salient thing about present American
politics is that we are giving up both our let-alone and
our regulation policies in favor of a constructive policy.
There has been a steady and comprehensible growth of
democracy from this point of view, that is, of the idea of
the function of government being not merely to protect,
to adjust, to restrain, and all the negative rest of it, but
that the function of government should be to build, to
construct the life of its people. We think now that a
constructive social policy is more democratic than the
protection of men in their individual rights and property.
In 1800 the opposite idea prevailed, and Jefferson, not
Hamilton, was considered the Democrat. We must reinterpret
or restate the fundamental principles of democracy.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_183">183</span>But why do we consider our present constructive social
policies more democratic? Are they necessarily so?
Has not paternalistic Germany constructive social policies
for her people? Social legislation in England and
America means an increase of democracy because it is
a movement which is in England and America bound
up with other democratic movements.<a id="r79"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f79"><sup>[79]</sup></a> In America we
see at the same time the trend towards (1) an increase
of administrative responsibility, (2) an increase of direct
control by the people, (3) an increase of social legislation.
Not one of these is independent of the other two. They
have acted and reacted on one another. Men have not
first been given a more direct share in government and
then used their increased power to adopt social policies.
The two have gone on side by side. Moreover, the
adoption of social policies has increased the powers of
government and, therefore, it has more and more come
to be seen that popular control of government is necessary.
At the same time the making of campaign issues
out of social policies has at once in itself made all the
people more important in politics. Or it is equally true
to say that giving the people a closer share in government
means that our daily lives pass more naturally into
the area of politics. Hence we see, from whichever point
we begin, that these three movements are bound together.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus in America there is growing recognition of the
fact that social policies are not policies invented for the
good of the people, but policies created by the people.
The regulation theory was based on the same fallacy as
the let-alone theory, namely, that government is something
external to the structural life of the people. Government
cannot leave us alone, it cannot regulate us,
it can only express us. The scope of politics should be
our whole social life. Our present idea of an omnipresent,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_184">184</span>ever-active, articulate citizenship building up its own
life within the frame of politics is the most fruitful idea
of modern times.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, social legislation is an indication of the
growth of democracy, the increase of individualism,
because it is legislation for the individual. We have
had legislation to protect home industries, we have encouraged
agriculture, we have helped the railroads by
concessions and land grants, but we have not until
recently had legislation for the individual. Social legislation
means legislation for the individual man: health
laws, shorter hours of work, workmen’s compensation,
old age pensions, minimum wage, prevention of industrial
accidents, prohibition of child labor, etc. Over and over
again our social legislation is pointed to as a reaction
against individualism. On the contrary it shows an
increase of genuine individualism. The <em>individual</em> has
never been so appreciated as in the awakening <em>social</em>
world of to-day.</p>

<p class="c013">This is not a contradiction of what is said in chapter
XV, that law according to its most progressive exponents
is to serve not individuals, but the community; that
modern law thinks of men not as separate individuals,
but in their relation to one another. Modern law synthesizes
the idea of individual and community through
its view of the social individual as the community-unit.
Law used to be for the particularist individual; now it
serves the community, but the community-unit is the
social individual.</p>

<p class="c013">In our most recent books we see the expression
“the new individualism.” The meaning of this phrase,
although never used by him, is clearly implied in the
writings of Mr. Roscoe Pound. He says “As a social
institution the interests with which law is concerned are
social interests, but the chiefest of these social interests
<span class="pageno" id="Page_185">185</span>is one in the full human life of the individual.” Here is
expressed the essential meaning of the new individualism—that
it is a synthesis of individual and society. That
the social individual, the community-unit, is becoming
“the individual” for law is the most promising sign for
the future of political method. When Mr. Pound says
that the line between public law and private law in
jurisprudence is nothing more than a convenient mode
of expression, he shows us the old controversy in regard
to the state and the individual simply fading away.</p>

<p class="c013">Social legislation, direct government, concentration of
administrative responsibility, are then indications of the
growth of democracy? Yes, but only indications. They
can mean an actual increase of democracy only if they
are accompanied by the development of those methods
which shall make every man and his daily needs the
basis and the substance of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_186">186</span>politics.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_187">187</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="pt_3"><span class="sc">Part III</span><br/> <br/>GROUP ORGANIZATION DEMOCRACY’S METHOD</h2>
</div>

<div class="lg-container-b c003">
  <div class="linegroup">
    <div class="group">
      <div class="line">1. THE NEIGHBORHOOD GROUP</div>
    </div>
    <div class="group">
      <div class="line">2. THE OCCUPATIONAL GROUP</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_188">188</span>
  <h3 class="c000" id="pt_3a">THE NEIGHBORHOOD GROUP</h3>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_189">189</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_22">XXII<br/> <br/>NEIGHBORHOOD NEEDS THE BASIS OF POLITICS</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">POLITICS are changing in character: shall the
change be without plan or method, or is this
the guiding moment?</p>

<p class="c013">We are at a critical hour in our history. We have long
thought of politics as entirely outside our daily life
manipulated by those set apart for the purpose. The
methods by which the party platform is constructed are
not those which put into it the real issues before the
public; the tendency is to put in what will elect candidates
or to cover up the real issues by generalities. But
just so long as we separate politics and our daily life,
just so long shall we have all our present evils. Politics
can no longer be an extra-activity of the American
people, they must be a means of satisfying our actual
wants.</p>

<p class="c013">We are now beginning to recognize more and more
clearly that the work we do, the conditions of that work,
the houses in which we live, the water we drink, the
food we eat, the opportunities for bringing up our children,
that in fact the whole area of our daily life should
constitute politics. There is no line where the life of the
home ends and the life of the city begins. There is no
wall between my private life and my public life. A man
I know tells me that he “wouldn’t touch politics with a
ten-foot pole,” but how can he help touching politics?
He may not like the party game, but politics shape the
life he leads from hour to hour. When this is once understood
<span class="pageno" id="Page_190">190</span>no question in history will seem more astonishing
than the one so often reiterated in these days, “Should
woman be given a place in politics?” Woman <em>is</em> in
politics; no power under the sun can put her out.</p>

<p class="c013">Politics then must satisfy the needs of the people.
What are the needs of the people? Nobody knows.
We know the supposed needs of certain classes, of certain
“interests”; these can never be woven into the
needs of the people. Further back we must go, down
into the actual life from which all these needs spring,
down into the daily, hourly living with all its innumerable
cross currents, with all its longings and heart-burnings,
with its envies and jealousies perhaps, with its
unsatisfied desires, its embryonic aspirations, and its
power, manifest or latent, for endeavor and accomplishment.
The needs of the people are not now articulate:
they loom out of the darkness, vague, big, portentously
big, but dumb because of the separation of men. To
open up this hinterland of our life the cross currents now
burrowing under ground must come to the surface and
be openly acknowledged.</p>

<p class="c013">We work, we spend most of our waking hours working
for some one of whose life we know nothing, who knows
nothing of us; we pay rent to a landlord whom we never
see or see only once a month, and yet our home is our
most precious possession; we have a doctor who is with
us in the crucial moments of birth and death, but whom
we ordinarily do not meet; we buy our food, our clothes,
our fuel, of automatons for the selling of food, clothes
and fuel. We know all these people in their occupational
capacity, not as men like ourselves with hearts like ours,
desires like ours, hopes like ours. And this isolation from
those who minister to our lives, to whose lives we minister,
does not bring us any nearer to our neighbors in
their isolation. For every two or three of us think ourselves
<span class="pageno" id="Page_191">191</span>a little better than every other two or three, and
this becomes a dead wall of separation, of misunderstanding,
of antagonism. How can we do away with
this artificial separation which is the dry-rot of our life?
First we must realize that each has something to give.
Every man comes to us with a golden gift in his heart.
Do we dare, therefore, avoid any man? If I stay by
myself on my little self-made pedestal, I narrow myself
down to my own personal equation of error. If I go to
all my neighbors, my own life increases in multiple measure.
The aim of each of us should be to live in the lives
of all. Those fringes which connect my life with the life
of every other human being in the world are the inlets
by which the central forces flow into me. I am a worse
lawyer, a worse teacher, a worse doctor if I do not know
these wider contacts. Let us seek then those bonds
which unite us with every other life. Then do we find
reality, only in union, never in isolation.</p>

<p class="c013">But it must be a significant union, never a mere coming
together. How we waste immeasurable force in
much of our social life in a mere tossing of the ball, on
the merest externality and travesty of a common life
which we do not penetrate for the secret at its heart. The
quest of life and the meaning of life is reality. We may
flit on the surface as gnats in the sunlight, but in each
of us, however overlaid, is the hunger and thirst for
realness, for substance. We must plunge down to find
our treasure. The core of a worthy associated life is the
call of reality to reality, the calling and answering and
the bringing it forth from the depths forever more and
more. To go to meet our fellows is to go out and let
the winds of Heaven blow upon us—we throw ourselves
open to every breath and current which spring from
this meeting of life’s vital forces.</p>

<p class="c013">Some of us are looking for the remedy for our fatal
<span class="pageno" id="Page_192">192</span>isolation in a worthy and purposeful neighborhood life.
Our proposal is that people should organize themselves
into neighborhood groups to express their daily life, to
bring to the surface the needs, desires and aspirations of
that life, that these needs should become the substance
of politics, and that these neighborhood groups should
become the recognized political unit.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us consider some of the advantages of the neighborhood
group. First, it makes possible the association
of neighbors, which means fuller acquaintance and a
more real understanding. The task of creation from
elektrons up is putting self in relation. Is man the only
one who refuses this task? I do not know my next-door
neighbor! One of the most unfortunate circumstances
of our large towns is that we expect concerted action
from people who are strangers to one another. So mere
acquaintance is the first essential. This will lead inevitably
to friendly feeling. The story is told of some American
official who begged not to be introduced to a political
enemy, for he said he could not hate any one with whom
he became acquainted. We certainly do feel more kindly
to the people we actually see. It is what has been called
“the pungent sense of effective reality.” Neighborhood
organization will substitute confidence for suspicion—a
great gain.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, neighborhood organization gives opportunity
for constant and regular intercourse. We are
indeed far more interested in humanity than ever before.
Look at what we are studying: social psychology, social
economics, social medicine and hygiene, social ethics
etc. But people must socialize their lives by practice,
not by study. Until we begin to acquire the habit of a
social life no theory of a social life will do us any good.
It is a mistake to think that such abstractions as unity,
brotherhood etc. are as self-evident to our wills as to
<span class="pageno" id="Page_193">193</span>our intellect. I learn my duty to my friends not by
reading essays on friendship, but by living my life with
my friends and learning by experience the obligations
friendship demands. Just so must I learn my relation
to society by coming into contact with a wide range of
experiences, of people, by cultivating and deepening
my sympathy and whole understanding of life.</p>

<p class="c013">When we have come together and got acquainted with
one another, then we shall have an opportunity for
learning the rules of the game—the game of association
which is the game of life. Certain organizations
have sprung up since 1914 with the avowed object of
fighting war with love. If only we knew how to love!
I am ready to say to you this minute, “I love my neighbors.”
But all that I mean by it is that I have a vague
feeling of kindliness towards them. I have no idea
how to do the actual deed. I shall offend against the
law of love within an hour. The love of our fellow-men
to be effective must be the love evolved from some actual
group relation. We talk of fellowship; we, puny separatists
bristling with a thousand unharmonized traits, with
our assertive particularist consciousness, think that all
we have to do is to <em>decide</em> on fellowship as a delightful
idea. But fellowship will be the slowest thing on earth
to create. An eager longing for it may help, but it can
come into being as a genuine part of our life only through
a deep understanding of what it really means.</p>

<p class="c013">Yet association is the impulse at the core of our being.
The whole social process is that of association, individual
with individual, group with group. Progress from one
point of view is a continuously widening of the area of
association. Our modern civilization has simply overlaid
and falsified this primary instinct of life. But this
is rapidly changing. The most striking characteristic
of the present day is that people are doing more things
<span class="pageno" id="Page_194">194</span>together: they are coming together as never before in
labor organizations, in coöperative societies, in consumers’
leagues, in associations of employers and employed,
in municipal movements, for national purposes,
etc. etc. We have the Men’s City Club, the Women’s
City Club; professional societies are multiplying over
night. The explanation sometimes given for this present
tendency towards union is that we are beginning to see
the material advantages of coöperation, but the root
of the thing is far from utilitarian advantage. Our happiness,
our sense of living at all, is directly dependent on
our joining with others. We are lost, exiled, imprisoned
until we feel the joy of union.</p>

<p class="c013">I believe that the realization of oneness which will
come to us with a fuller sense of democracy, with a
deeper sense of our common life, is going to be the substitute
for what men now get in war. Some psychologists
tell us that fighting is one of the fundamental
instincts, and that if we do not have war we shall have
all the dangers of thwarted instinct. But the lure of war
is neither the instinct of hate nor the love of fighting;
it is the joining of one with another in a common purpose.
“And the heart of a people beat with one desire.”
Many men have gone joyfully to war because it gave
them fellowship. I said to some one that I thought the
reason war was still popular in spite of all its horrors
was because of our lack of imagination, we simply could
not realize war. “No,” said the man I spoke to, “I
know war, I know its horrors, and the reason that in
spite of it all men like war is because there we are doing
something all together. That is its exhilaration and
why we can’t give it up. We come home and each leads
his separate life and it seems tame and uninteresting
merely on that account, the deadly separateness of our
ordinary life.”</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_195">195</span>When we want a substitute for war, therefore, we
need not seek for a substitute for fighting or for hating;
we must find some way of making ourselves feel at one
with some portion of our fellow-creatures. If the essential
characteristic of war is doing things together, let
us begin to do things together in peace. Yet not an artificial
doing things together, we could so easily fall into
that, but an entire reorganization of life so that the
doing things together shall be the natural way—the
way we shall all want to do things.</p>

<p class="c013">But mere association is not enough. We need more
than the “collective life,” the mere “getting-together,”
so much talked of in these days; our getting together
must be made effective, must exercise our minds and
wills as well as our emotions, must serve the great ends
of a great life. Neighborhood organization gives all an
opportunity to learn the technique of association.</p>

<p class="c013">A further advantage of neighborhood organization is
that as a member of a neighborhood group we get a
fuller and more varied life than as a member of any
other kind of a group we can find, no matter how big
our city or how complex or comprehensive its interests.
This statement sounds paradoxical—it will seem to
many like saying that the smaller is greater than the
larger. Let us examine this statement therefore and see
if perhaps in this case the smaller is not greater than the
larger. Why is the neighborhood group better for us
than the selected group? Why are provincial people
more interesting than cosmopolitan, that is, if provincial
people have taken advantage of <em>their</em> opportunities?
Because cosmopolitan people are all alike—that has
been the aim of their existence and they have accomplished
it. The man who knows the “best” society of
Petrograd, Paris, London and New York, and that only,
is a narrow man because the ideals and standards of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_196">196</span>the “best” society of London, Paris and New York are
the same. He knows life across but not down—it is a
horizontal civilization instead of a vertical one, with all
the lack of depth and height of everything horizontal.
This man has always been among the same kind of
people, his life has not been enlarged and enriched by
the friction of ideas and ideals which comes from the
meeting of people of different opportunities and different
tastes and different standards. But this is just
what we may have in a neighborhood group—different
education, different interests, different standards. Think
of the doctor, the man who runs the factory, the organist
and choir leader, the grocer, the minister, the watch-maker,
the school-teacher, all living within a few blocks
of one another.</p>

<p class="c013">On the other hand consider how different it is when
we <em>choose</em> the constituents of our group—then we choose
those who are the same as ourselves in some particular.
We have the authors’ club, the social workers’ club, the
artists’ club, the actors’ society, the business men’s
club, the business women’s club, the teachers’ club etc.<a id="r80"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f80"><sup>[80]</sup></a>
The satisfaction and contentment that comes with sameness
indicates a meagre personality. I go to the medical
association to meet doctors, I go to my neighborhood
club to meet men. It is just because my next door
neighbor has never been to college that he is good for
me. The stenographer may come to see that her life is
really richer from getting the factory girl’s point of view.</p>

<p class="c013">In a neighborhood group you have the stimulus and
the bracing effect of many different experiences and
ideals. And in this infinite variety which touches you
on every side, you have a life which enriches and enlarges
<span class="pageno" id="Page_197">197</span>and fecundates; this is the true soil of human
development—just because you have here a natural
and not an artificial group, the members find all that is
necessary in order to grow into that whole which is true
community living.</p>

<p class="c013">Many young men and women think as they come to
the teeming cities that there they are to find the fuller
life they have longed for, but often the larger our world
the narrower we become, for we cannot face the vague
largeness, and so we join a clique of people as nearly
like ourselves as we can find.</p>

<p class="c013">In so far, therefore, as neighborhoods are the result
of some selective process, they are not so good for our
purpose. The Italian colony or the Syrian colony
does not give us the best material for group organization,
neither does any occupational segregation like the stockyard
district of Chicago. (This is an argument against
the industrial colonies which are spreading.) In a more
or less mixed neighborhood, people of different nationalities
or different classes come together easily and naturally
on the ground of many common interests: the school,
recreational opportunities, the placing of their children
in industry, hygiene, housing etc. Race and class prejudices
are broken down by working together for intimate
objects.</p>

<p class="c013">Whenever I speak of neighborhood organization to
my friends, those who disagree with me at once become
violent on the subject. I have never understood why it
inflames them more easily than other topics. They
immediately take it for granted that I am proposing to
shut them up tight in their neighborhoods and seal
them hermetically; they assume that I mean to substitute
the neighborhood for every other contact. They
tell me of the pettiness of neighborhood life, and I have
to listen to stories of neighborhood iniquities ranging
<span class="pageno" id="Page_198">198</span>from small gossip to determined boycotting. Intolerance
and narrowness thrive in the neighborhood group
they say; in the wider group they do not. But I am not
proposing to substitute the neighborhood group for
others, yet even so I should like to say a word for the
neighborhood.</p>

<p class="c013">We may like some selected group better than the
company of our neighbors, but such a group is no
“broader” necessarily, because it draws from all over
the city, than a local one. You can have narrow interests
as well as narrow spaces. Neighbors may, it is true,
discuss the comings and goings of the family down the
street, but I have heard people who are not neighbors
discuss equally trivial subjects. But supposing that
non-neighborhood groups are less petty in the sense of
less personal in their conversation, they are often also
less real, and this is an important point. If I dress in
my best clothes and go to another part of the city and
take all my best class of conversation with me, I don’t
know that it does me any good if I am the same person
who in my every-day clothes goes in next door and talks
slander. What I mean is that the only place in the world
where we can change ourselves is on that level where
we are real. And what is forgotten by my friends who
think neighborhood life trivial is that (according to their
own argument) it is the same people who talk gossip
in their neighborhoods who are impersonal and noble in
another part of the city.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, if we are happier away from our neighborhood
it would be well for us to analyze the cause—there
may be a worthy reason, there may not. Is it perhaps
that one does not get as much consideration there as
one thinks one’s due? Have we perhaps, led by our
vanity, been drawn to those groups where we get the
most consideration? My neighbors may not think much
<span class="pageno" id="Page_199">199</span>of me because I paint pictures, knowing that my back
yard is dirty, but my artist friends who like my color
do not know or care about my back yard. My neighbors
may feel no admiring awe of my scientific researches
knowing that I am not the first in the house of a neighbor
in trouble.</p>

<p class="c013">You may reply, “But this is not my case. I am one
of the most esteemed people in my neighborhood and
one of the lowest in the City Club, but I prefer the
latter just because of that: there is room for me to aspire
there, but where I am leading what is there for me to
grow toward, how can I expand in such an atmosphere?”
But I should say that this also might be a case of vanity:
possibly these people prefer the City Club because they
do not like to think they have found their place in life
in what they consider an inferior group; it flatters them
more to think that they belong to a superior group even
if they occupy the lowest place there. But the final
word to be said is I think that this kind of seeking implies
always the attitude of getting, almost as bad as the
attitude of conferring. It is extremely salutary to take
our place in a neighborhood group.</p>

<p class="c013">Then, too, that does not always do us most good which
we enjoy most, as we are not always progressing most
when thrills go up and down our spine. We may have a
selected group feeling “good,” but that is not going to
make us good. That very homogeneity which we nestle
down into and in which we find all the comfort of a down
pillow, does not provide the differences in which alone
we can grow. We must know the finer enjoyment of
recognized diversity.</p>

<p class="c013">It must be noted, however, that while it is not proposed
that the neighborhood association be substituted
for other forms of association—trade-union, church
societies, fraternal societies, local improvement leagues,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_200">200</span>coöperative societies, men’s clubs, women’s clubs etc.—yet
the hope is that it shall not be one more association
merely, but that it shall be the means of coördinating
and translating into community values other local groups.
The neighborhood association might become a very mechanical
affair if we were all to go there every evening
and go nowhere else. It must not with its professed
attempt to give a richer life cut off the variety and spontaneity
we now have.</p>

<p class="c013">But the trouble now is that we have so much unrelated
variety, so much unutilized spontaneity. The
small merchant of a neighborhood meets with the other
small dealers for business purposes, he goes to church
on Sundays, he gets his social intercourse at his lodge
or club, but where and when does he consider any possible
integration of these into channels for community
life? At his political rally, to be sure, he meets his neighbors
irrespective of business or church or social lines,
but there he comes under party domination. A free,
full community life lived within the sustaining and nourishing
power of the community bond, lived for community
ends, is almost unknown now. This will not
come by substituting the neighborhood group for other
groups, not even by using it as a clearing-house, but by
using it as a medium for interpretation and unofficial
integration.</p>

<p class="c013">There should be as much spontaneous association as
the vitality of the neighborhood makes possible, but
other groups may perhaps find their significance and
coördination through the neighborhood association. If
a men’s or women’s club is of no use to the community
it should not exist; if it is of use, it must find out of what
use, how related to all other organizations, how through
and with them related to the whole community. The
lawyers’ club, the teachers’ club, the trade association
<span class="pageno" id="Page_201">201</span>or the union—these can have little influence on their
community until they discover their relation to the community
through and in one another. I have seen many
examples of this. If the neighborhood group is to be
the political unit, it must learn how to gather up into
significant community expression these more partial expressions
of individual wants.</p>

<p class="c013">It is sometimes said that the force of the neighborhood
bond is lessening now-a-days with the ease of communication,
but this is true only for the wealthy. The poor
cannot afford constantly to be paying the ten-cent
carfare necessary to leave and return to their homes, nor
the more well-to-do of the suburbs the twenty or twenty-five
cents it costs them to go to the city and back. The
fluctuating population of neighborhoods may be an
argument against getting all we should like out of the
neighborhood bond, but at the same time it makes it
all the more necessary that some organization should be
ready at hand to assimilate the new-comers and give
them an opportunity of sharing in civic life as an integral,
responsible part of that life. Moreover a neighborhood
has common traditions and memories which persist and
influence even although the personnel changes.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: whether we want the exhilaration of a
fuller life or whether we want to find the unities which
will make for peace and order, for justice and for righteousness,
it would be wise to turn back to the neighborhood
group and there begin the a b c of a constructive
brotherhood of man. We must recognize that too much
congeniality makes for narrowness, and that the harmonizing,
not the ignoring, of our differences leads us
to the truth. Neighborhood organization gives us the
best opportunity we have yet discovered of finding the
unity underneath all our differences, the real bond between
them—of living the consciously creative life.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_202">202</span>We can never reform American politics from above,
by reform associations, by charters and schemes of government.
Our political forms will have no vitality unless
our political life is so organized that it shall be based
primarily and fundamentally on spontaneous association.
“Government is a social contact,” was found in
the examination papers of a student in a near-by college.
He was nearer the truth than he knew. Political progress
must be by local communities. Our municipal
life will be just as strong as the strength of its parts.
We shall never know how to be one of a nation until
we are one of a neighborhood. And what better training
for world organization can each man receive than for
neighbors to live together not as detached individuals
but as a true community, for no League of Nations will
be successful which regards France and Germany, England
and Russia as separatist units of a world-union.</p>

<p class="c013">Those who are working for particular reforms to be
accomplished immediately will not be interested in
neighborhood organization; only those will be interested
who think that it is far more important for us to find the
right method of attacking all our problems than to solve
any one. We who believe in neighborhood organization
believe that the neighborhood group is a more significant
unit to identify ourselves with than any we have hitherto
known in cities. People have been getting together in
churches, in fraternal societies, in political parties, in
industrial and commercial associations, but now in addition
to these partial groups communities are to get
together as communities.</p>

<p class="c013">The neighborhood organization movement is not waiting
for ideal institutions, or perfect men, but is finding
whatever creative forces there are within a community
and taking these and building the future with them.
The neighborhood organization movement is a protest
<span class="pageno" id="Page_203">203</span>against both utopias on the one hand and a mechanicalized
humanity on the other. It consists of the process
of building always with the best we have, and its
chief problem is to discover the methods by which the
best we have can be brought to the surface. Neighborhood
organization gives us a method which will revolutionize
politics.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_204">204</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_23">XXIII<br/> <br/>AN INTEGRATED NEIGHBORHOOD</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">HOW can an active and fruitful neighborhood
life be brought into existence and fostered
and nurtured? How can we unclose the
sources within our own midst from which to draw our
inspiration? And then how can the vision which we
learn to see together be actualized? How can neighborhoods
learn to satisfy their own needs through their own
initiative? In other words how can the force generated
by our neighborhood life become part of our whole civic
and national life? How can an integrated neighborhood
responsibility become a civic and national responsibility?</p>

<p class="c013">There is no such thing as a neighborhood in its true
sense, something more, that is, than the physical contiguity
of people, until you have a neighborhood consciousness.
Rows of houses, rows of streets, do not make
a neighborhood. The place bond must give way to a
consciousness of real union. This neighborhood consciousness
can be evolved in five ways:</p>

<p class="c013">1. By regular meetings of neighbors for the consideration
of neighborhood and civic problems, not merely
sporadic and occasional meetings for specific objects.</p>

<p class="c013">2. By a genuine discussion at these regular meetings.</p>

<p class="c013">3. By learning together—through lectures, classes,
clubs; by sharing one another’s experience through
social intercourse; by learning forms of community art
expression; in short by leading an actual community
life.</p>

<p class="c013">4. By taking more and more responsibility for the life
of the neighborhood.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_205">205</span>5. By establishing some regular connection between
the neighborhood and city, state and national governments.</p>

<p class="c013">The most deliberate and conscious movement for
neighborhood organization is the Community Centre
movement. This is a movement to mobilize community
forces and to get these forces expressed in our social and
political life. Each community, it is becoming recognized,
has its own desires, its own gifts, its own inherent
powers to bring to the life of the whole city. But these
inner forces <a id="tn205"/>must be freed and utilized for public ends.
The Community Centre movement is a movement to
release the potential values of neighborhood life, to find
a channel for them to flow in, to help people find and
organize their own resources. It is to provide a means
for the self-realization of neighborhoods. In considering,
therefore, the various methods of neighborhood integration,
it must be remembered that many of these methods
are being already actualized in Community Centres,
School Centres, Neighborhood Associations—there are
many names for the many forms in which this vital need
is finding expression.</p>

<p class="c013">Schoolhouses are being opened all over the country
for neighborhood use. In the larger cities, indeed, where
school buildings have auditoriums, gymnasiums, cooking-rooms,
sewing-rooms etc., the School Centre is for many
reasons the best form of community organization. In
some cities, as in Chicago, the field-houses in the parks are
used as community centres, in addition to the schoolhouses.
In many smaller towns or villages, where field-houses
are unknown and the schoolhouses unsuitable
(although often we find valuable if not showy results
in the little red schoolhouse at the cross-roads or in a
Kansas cyclone cellar underneath the district school),
“community buildings” are being built. Their name is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_206">206</span>significant. They have a reading room, library, rest
room, club rooms and usually a small hall with stage for
dramatic and musical entertainments.</p>

<p class="c013">And beyond this conscious effort to organize neighborhoods,
or rather to help neighborhoods to organize themselves,
much spontaneous initiative in both rural and
urban communities, springing from the daily needs of
the people, is finding neighborhood organization to be
the result of concerted effort. Mothers want to learn
more of the care of their homes, men want to discuss
local improvements, young men and women want recreation,
there is a hunger for a wider social intercourse or
for some form of community art-expression, music or
drama. Yet whichever of these motives leads us to the
schoolhouse or the community building, the result is
always the same—a closer forging of the neighborhood
bond. Whoever takes the initiative in organizing the
Community Centre—a parents’ association, a men’s
civic club, a mothers’ club, a committee of citizens, the
city council, the board of education—the result is
always the same, a closer forging of the community bond.</p>

<p class="c013">The Community Centre movement has made rapid
progress in the last ten years. All over the country new
Centres are springing up constantly. That the impulse
for their organization is almost as varied as there are
different towns and cities is evidence of their real need.
I have had letters in regard to the organization of Centres
from as widely different sources as the city council of a
western city, girls teaching in rural schools, the mayor of
a small city, and young working men in a big city. Indeed
Centres have become so much the fashion that one
man came to me and said, “We want a School Centre
in our district—will you help us to get one—what is
a School Centre?”</p>

<p class="c013">In the year 1915–16, 463 cities reported over 59,000
<span class="pageno" id="Page_207">207</span>occasions in public school buildings after 6 <span class="fss">P.M.</span> in addition
to evening school work.<a id="r81"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f81"><sup>[81]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But School or Community Centres do not exist merely
for the satisfaction of neighborhood needs, for the creating
of a community bond, for the expression of that bond
in communal action,—they also give the training necessary
to bring that activity to its highest fulfilment. We
all need not merely opportunities to exercise democracy,
but opportunity for a training in democracy. We are
not going to take any kind of citizen for the new state,
we intend to grow our own citizens. Through group
activities, through classes and lectures, through university
extension, through actual practice in self government
by the management of their own Centres and
the varied activities therein, all, young and old, may
prepare themselves for the new citizenship of the new
democracy.<a id="r82"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f82"><sup>[82]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Let us now consider the five ways given above for
producing an integrated and responsible neighborhood.
First, the regular meetings of neighbors in civic clubs.
In Boston we have, in connection with the School Centres,
the so-called “East Boston Town-Meeting,” the
“Charlestown Commonwealth,” etc. At such meetings
neighborhood needs can be discussed, and the men and
women of those neighborhoods, while getting to know
one another and their local conditions, can be training
themselves to function with government and as government.
The first advantage of such meetings is their
regularity.</p>

<p class="c013">I am urging <em>regular</em> meetings of small groups of neighbors
as a new method in politics. Neighbors now often
<span class="pageno" id="Page_208">208</span>meet for one object or two or three, and then when these
are accomplished think that they need not meet again
until there is another definite end to be gained. But in
the meantime there should be the slow building up of
the neighborhood consciousness. A mass-meeting will
never do this. But this neighborhood consciousness is
far more important than to get a municipal bath-house
for a certain district. If the bath-house is considered
the chief thing, and no effort made to get the neighborhood
group together again until something else, a playground
for instance, is wanted, this time perhaps not
enough cohesion and concentration of purpose can be
obtained to secure the playground. The question, in
neighborhood organization is—Is our object to get a
new playground or to create methods by which playgrounds
will become part of the neighborhood consciousness,
methods which will above all educate for further
concerted effort? If neighborhood organization is one
among many methods of getting things, then it is not of
great value; if, however, it is going to bring about a different
mental life, if it will give us an open mind, a flexible
mind, a coöperative mind, then it is the greatest
movement of our time. For our object is not to get
certain things, or to have certain things; our object is
to evolve the kind of life, the way of thinking, within
which these specific things will naturally have place.
We shall make no real progress until we can do this.</p>

<p class="c013">Bernard Shaw has said of family life that it is often
cut off equally from the blessings of society and the
blessings of solitude. We must see that our neighborhood
associations are so organized that we do get the
advantages of society.</p>

<p class="c013">The second way of creating an integrated neighborhood
is by learning and practising a genuine discussion, that is,
a discussion which shall evolve a true collective purpose
<span class="pageno" id="Page_209">209</span>and bring the group will of the neighborhood to bear
directly on city problems. When I speak of discussion
I mean always the kind of discussion which is called out
by a genuine group. The group idea, not the crowd idea,
is to come from discussion. What is the remedy for a
“ruthless majority”? What is the remedy for an “arrogant
minority”? Group discussion. Group discussion
will diminish suggestion as a social force and give
place to interpermeation.</p>

<p class="c013">When we advocate discussion as a political method, we
are not advocating the extension of a method already in
use. There is little discussion to-day. Talk to air our
grievances or as a steam-valve for the hot-headed, the
avowed intention sometimes in the organization of so-called
“discussion” societies, is not discussion. People
often speak of “self-expression” as if it were a letting off
of steam, as if there were something inside us that must
be let out before it explodes. But this is not the use to
which we must put the powers of self-expression; we
must release these powers not to be wasted through a
safety valve, but to be used constructively for the good
of society. To change the metaphor, we must not make
a petty effort to stem a stream which cannot and should
not be stemmed but helped to direct itself.</p>

<p class="c013">Do we have discussion in debating societies? Never.
Their influence is pernicious and they should be abolished
in colleges, schools, settlements, Young Men’s Christian
Associations, or wherever found. In these societies the
men as a rule take either side of the question allotted to
them, but even if they choose their side the process
of the debate is the same. The object is always to win,
it is never to discover the truth. This is excellent training
for our present party politics. It is wretched preparation
for the kind of politics we wish to see in America,
because there is no attempt to think together. Some
<span class="pageno" id="Page_210">210</span>one to whom I said this replied, “But each side has to
think together.” Not in the least: they simply pool
their information and their arguments, they don’t think
together. They don’t even think; that artificial mental
process of maintaining a thesis which is not yours by
conviction is not thinking. In debating you are always
trying to find the ideas and facts which will support
your side; you do not look dispassionately at all ideas
and all facts, and try to make out just where the
truth lies. You do not try to see what ideas of your
opponent will enrich your own point of view; you are
bound to reject without examination his views, his ideas,
almost I might say his facts. In a discussion you can
be flexible, you can try experiments, you can grow as
the group grows, but in a debate all this is impossible.</p>

<p class="c013">One of the great advantages of the forum movement
is that here we are beginning to have discussion.<a id="r83"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f83"><sup>[83]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Let us analyze briefly the advantages of discussion.
Genuine discussion is truth-seeking. First, then, it
presses every man to think clearly and appreciatively
and discriminatingly in order to take his part worthily.
What we need above everything else is clear thinking.
This need has been covered over by the demand for
“honest” men, but hardly any one would say to-day,
“Give the management of your city over to a group of
the most honest men you can find.” A group of honest
men—what a disconcerting picture the phrase calls
up! We want efficient men, thinking men, as well as
honest men. Take care of your thinking and your morals
will take care of themselves—is a present which would
have benefited certain reform campaigns.</p>

<p class="c013">The first advantage of discussion then is that it tends
to make us think and to seek accurate information in
<span class="pageno" id="Page_211">211</span>order to be able to think and to think clearly. I belong
to a civic conference lunch club which meets once a
month to discuss civic questions. On one occasion the
program committee discovered a few days before the
luncheon that on the question to be considered (a certain
bill before the legislature), we were all of the same
opinion, and so the discussion did not seem likely to be
very lively. But it happened that our secretary knew
some one who was on the other side, and this woman
was therefore invited to be our guest and present her
point of view to us. She accepted with pleasure as she
said she felt strongly on the matter. On the morning
of the day of our meeting, however, she telephoned that
she could not come, as she had just read the bill, thinking
it would be wise to do so before she publicly opposed
it, and she found she agreed with it heartily!</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, no one question can be adequately discussed
without an understanding of many more. Remedies
for abuses are seldom direct because every abuse is
bound up with our whole political and economic system.
And if discussion induces thinking by the preparation
necessary, it certainly stimulates thinking by the opposition
we meet.</p>

<p class="c013">But the great advantage of discussion is that thereby
we overcome misunderstanding and conquer prejudice.
An Englishman who visited America last winter said
that he had seen in an American newspaper this advice,
“Get acquainted with your neighbor, you might like
him,” and was much struck with the difference between
the American and the English way of looking at the
matter. The Englishman, he said, does not get acquainted
with his neighbor for fear he might like him!
I sometimes feel that we refuse to get acquainted with
the arguments of our opponents for fear we might sympathize
with them.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_212">212</span>Genuine discussion, however, will always and should
always bring out difference, but at the same time it teaches
us what to do with difference. The formative process
which takes place in discussion is that unceasing reciprocal
adjustment which brings out and gives form to truth.</p>

<p class="c013">The whole conception of discussion is now changing.
Discussion is to be the sharpest, most effective political
tool of the future. The value of the town-meeting is not
in the fact that every one goes, but in what every one
does when he gets there. And discussion will overcome
much indifference, much complacency. We must remember
that most people are not for or against anything;
the first object of getting people together is to make
them respond somehow, to overcome inertia. To disagree,
as well as to agree, with people brings you closer
to them. I always feel intimate with my enemies. It
is not opposition but indifference which separates men.</p>

<p class="c013">Another advantage of discussion in regular meetings
of neighbors is that men discuss questions there before
they come to a political issue, when there is not the heat
of the actual fight and the desire to win.</p>

<p class="c013">Through regular meetings then, and a genuine discussion,
we help to forge the neighborhood bond. But this
is not enough. A true community life should be developed.
If the multiplicity and complexity of interrelations
of interests and wants and hopes are to be brought
to the surface to form the substance of politics, people
must come more and more to live their lives together.
We are ignorant: we should form classes and learn together.
The farmer in Virginia goes to the School Centre
to learn how to test his seed corn. We need social intercourse:
we should meet to exchange experiences and to
have a “good time” together. We need opportunity
for bringing old and young together, parents and children,
for boys and girls to meet in a natural, healthy way. We
<span class="pageno" id="Page_213">213</span>need true recreation, not the passive looking at the
motion pictures, not the deadening watching of other
people’s acting; we want the real re-creation of active
participation. The leisure time of men and women is
being increased by legislation, by vocational efficiency,
by machinery, and by scientific management. One of
the most pressing needs of to-day is the constructive use
of leisure. This need can be largely satisfied in the
Neighborhood Centre. Festivals, pageants, the celebration
of holidays can all be used as recreation, as a
means of self-expression, and of building up the neighborhood
bond.</p>

<p class="c013">Here too the family realizes that its life is embedded
in a larger life, and the richer that larger life the more
the family gains. The family learns its duty to other
families, and it finds that its external relations change
all its inner life, as the International League will change
fundamentally the internal history of every nation. I
knew two sisters who were ashamed of their mother
until they could say to their friends, “Mother goes to
the lectures every Saturday night at the School Centre.”
I know men and wives who never went out together
until they found an extended home in a School Centre.
I know a father, an intelligent policeman, who never
had any real friendship with his four daughters until
he planned dances for them at the School Centre so that
they should not go to the public dance-halls.</p>

<p class="c013">Families often need some means of coming to a common
understanding; they are not always capable by themselves
of making the necessary adjustment of points of
view brought from so many sources as the different
family outgoings produce. For example, food conservation
taught in various ways in the Neighborhood Centre—by
cooking classes for women, by lectures for both
men and women showing the relation of food to the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_214">214</span>whole present world problem, by having regular afternoons
for meeting with agents from the Health Department,
by comparison between neighbors of the results
of the new feeding—food conservation, that is, taught
as a community problem, is more effective than taught
merely to classes of mothers. For if the mother makes
dishes the father and children refuse to eat, the cooking
classes she has attended will have no community value.
To give community value to all our apparently isolated
activities is one of the primary objects of neighborhood
organization.</p>

<p class="c013">The Neighborhood Centre, therefore, instead of separating
families, as sometimes feared, is uniting them.
To live their life in the setting of the broader life is continuously
to interpret and explain one to the other. And
if we have learned that sacred as our family life must
always be, the significance of that sacredness is its power
of contributing to the life around us, the life of our little
neighborhood, then we are ready to understand that the
nation too is real, that its tasks are mighty and that
those tasks will not be performed unless every one of us
can find self-expression through the nation’s needs.</p>

<p class="c013">We have seen that the regular meeting of neighbors
gives an external integration of neighborhood life. We
have seen that group discussion begins to forge a real
neighborhood bond. We have seen that a sharing of our
daily life—its cares and burdens, its pleasures and joys,
each with all—furthers this inner, this spiritual union
which is at last to be the core of a new politics. The
fourth way of developing the neighborhood bond is by
citizens taking more and more responsibility for the life
of their community. This will mean a moral integration.
We are not to dig down into our life to find our true
needs and then demand that government satisfy those
needs—the satisfaction also must be found in that
<span class="pageno" id="Page_215">215</span>fermenting life from which our demands issue. The
methods of neighborhood responsibility will be discussed
in <a href="#ch_26" class="pginternal">chapter XXVI</a>.</p>

<p class="c013">The fifth way of developing the neighborhood group
is by establishing some regular connection between the
neighborhood and city, state and national governments.
Then shall we have the political integration of the
neighborhood. This will be discussed in <a href="#ch_27" class="pginternal">chapter XXVII</a>,
“From Neighborhood to Nation.” Party politics are
organized, “interests” are organized, our citizenship is
not organized. Our neighborhood life is starving for
lack of any real part in the state. Give us that part and
as inevitably as the wake follows the ship will neighborhood
responsibility follow the integration of neighborhood
and state.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_216">216</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_24">XXIV<br/> <br/>NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATION VS. PARTY ORGANIZATION<br/> <br/><i>The Will of the People</i></h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">MANY of us are feeling strongly at the present
moment the importance of neighborhood
life, the importance of the development
of a neighborhood consciousness, the paramount importance
of neighborhood organization as the most effective
means of solving our city and national problems. What
our political life needs to-day is to get at the will of the
people and to incorporate it in our government, to substitute
a man-governed country for a machine-governed
country. If politics are to be no longer mysterious and
remote, but the warp and woof of our lives, if they are
to be neither a game nor a business, far different methods
must be adopted from any we have hitherto known.</p>

<p class="c013">Where do we show political vitality at present? In
our government? In our party organization? In our
local communities? We can see nowhere any clear
stream of political life. The vitality of our community
life is frittered away or unused. The muddy stream of
party politics is choked with personal ambition, the
desire for personal gain. Neighborhood organization is,
I believe, to be the vital current of our political life.
There is a wide-spread idea that we can do away with
the evils of the party system by attacking the boss.
Many think also that all would be well if we could separate
politics and business. But far below the surface
are the forces which have allied business and politics;
<span class="pageno" id="Page_217">217</span>far below the surface we must go, therefore, if we would
divorce this badly mated couple.</p>

<p class="c013">Neighborhood organization is to accomplish many
things. The most important are: to give a knock-out
blow to party organization, to make a direct and continuous
connection between our daily lives and needs and
our government, to diminish race and class prejudices,
to create a responsible citizenship, and to train and discipline
the new democracy; or, to sum up all these things,
to break down party organization and to make a creative
citizenship the force of American political life.</p>

<p class="c013">An effective neighborhood organization will deal the
death blow to party: (1) by substituting a real unity
for the pseudo unity of party, by creating a genuine
public opinion, a true will of the people,<a id="r84"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f84"><sup>[84]</sup></a> (2) by evolving
genuine leaders instead of bosses, (3) by putting a
responsible government in the place of the irresponsible
party.</p>

<p class="c013">First, there is at present no real unity of the people.</p>

<p class="c013">It is clear that party organization has succeeded because
it was the only way we knew of bringing about
concerted action. This must be obtained by the manipulation
of other men’s minds or by the evolving of the
common mind; we must choose between the two. In
the past the monarch got his power from the fact that
he represented the unity of his people—the tribal or
national consciousness. In the so-called democracies of
England and America we have now no one man who
represents a true collective consciousness. Much of the
power of party has come, therefore, from the fact that
it gave expression to a certain kind of pseudo collective
consciousness: we found that it was impossible to get
a common will from a multitude, the only way we could
<span class="pageno" id="Page_218">218</span>get any unity was through the party. We have accepted
party dictatorship rather than anarchy. We have felt
that any discussion of party organization was largely
doctrinaire because party has given us collective action
of a kind, and what has been offered in its place was a
scattered and irresponsible, and therefore weak and ineffective,
particularism. No “independent” method of
voting can ever vie with the organized party machinery:
its loose unintegrated nebulosity will be shattered into
smithereens by the impact of the closely organized
machine.</p>

<p class="c013">The problem which many men have wrestled with in
their lives—whether they are to adhere to party or
to be “independent”—is futile. Personal honesty exhausts
no man’s duty in life; an effective life is what is
demanded of us, and no isolated honesty gives us social
effectiveness. When we go up to the gates of another
world and say, “I have been honest, I have been pure,
I have been diligent”—no guardian of those Heavenly
gates will fling them open for us, but we shall be faced
with the counter thrust: “How have you used those
qualities for making blossom the earth which was your
inheritance? We want no sterile virtues here. Have
you sold your inheritance for the pottage of personal
purity, personal honesty, personal growth?”</p>

<p class="c013">To make our “independence” effective, to vie successfully
with party organization, we must organize genuine
groups and learn in those true collective action. No particularistic
theory of politics will ever be strong enough
to take the place of party. The political consciousness
of men must be transferred from the party to the neighborhood
group.</p>

<p class="c013">We hear discussed from time to time how far public
opinion governs the world, but at present there is no
public opinion. Our legislatures are supposed to enact the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_219">219</span>will of the people, our courts are supposed to declare
the will of the people, our executive to voice the will of
the people, a will surrounding men like a nimbus apparently
from their births on. But there is no will of the
people.<a id="r85"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f85"><sup>[85]</sup></a> We talk glibly about it but the truth is that
it is such a very modern thing that it does not yet exist.
There is, it is true, an overwhelming chaos of ideas on
all the problems which surround us. Is this public
opinion? The urge of the crowd often gets crystallized
into a definite policy ardently advocated. Is this public
opinion? Certain interests find a voice; one party or
another, one group or another, expresses itself. Is this
public opinion? Public opinion is that common understanding
which is the driving force of a living whole and
shapes the life of that whole.</p>

<p class="c013">We believe that the state should be the incarnation
of the common will, but where is the common will? All
the proposed new devices for getting at the will of the
people (referendum etc.) assume that we have a will to
express; but our great need at present is not to get a
chance to express our wonderful ideas, but to get some
wonderful ideas to express. A more complete representation
is the aim of much of our political reform, but our
first requirement is surely to have something to represent.
It isn’t that we need one kind of government
more than another, as the image-breakers tell us, it isn’t
that we need honest intentions, as the preachers tell us,
our essential and vital need is a people creating a will of
its own. In all the sentimental talk of democracy the
will of the people is spoken of tenderly as if it were there
in all its wisdom and all its completeness and we had
only to put it into operation.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_220">220</span>The tragic thing about our situation in America is,
not merely that we have no public opinion, but that we
think we have. If I have no money in my pocket and
know it, I can go to work and earn some; if I do not
know it I may starve. But I do not want the American
people to starve. The average American citizen says
to himself, “It doesn’t matter very much what I think
because American public opinion is sound at the core.”
It is our Great Illusion. There has been much apotheosizing
of the so-called popular will, but not every circle
is a halo, and you can’t put a wreath round “the popular
will” and call it democracy. The popular will to mean
democracy must be a properly evolved popular will—the
true will of the people.</p>

<p class="c013">Who are the people? Every individual? The majority?
A theoretical average? A compromise group?
The reason we go astray about public opinion is because
we have not as yet a clear and adequate definition of
the “people.” We are told that we must elevate the
“people.” There are no “people.” We have to create
a people. The people are not an imaginary average,
shorn of genius and power and leadership. You cannot
file off all the points made by talent and efficiency, and
call the dead level that is left the people. The people
are the integration of every development, of every genius,
with everything else that our complex and interacting
life brings about. But the method of such integration
can never be through crowd association. We may come
to think that vox populi is vox Dei, but not until it is
the group voice, not until it is found by some more intimate
process than listening to the shout of the crowd
or counting the votes in the ballot-box.</p>

<p class="c013">The error in regard to public opinion can be traced to
that same sociological error which is the cause of so
many confusions in our political thought: that the social
<span class="pageno" id="Page_221">221</span>process is the spread of similarities by suggestion and
imitation. Any opinion that is shared, simply because
it is shared, is called public opinion. But if this opinion
is shared because it has spread among large numbers by
“unconscious imitation,” then it is not a genuine public
opinion; to be that, the process by which it has been
evolved must be that of intermingling and interpermeating.
Public opinion has been defined as the opinions of
all the men on the “tops of busses,” or the opinion made
by “banks, stock-exchanges and all the wire-pullers of
the world,” or the opinion “imposed on the public by a
succession of thinkers.” All this is, no doubt, true of
much of our so-called public opinion at present, for
public opinion to-day is largely crowd opinion. But
there is less of this than formerly. And we must adopt
those modes of living by which there shall be less and
less infection of crowds and more and more an evolving
of genuine group thought. When reforms are brought
about by crowds being swept into them, they can be
undone just as easily; there is no real progress here.</p>

<p class="c013">Political parties and business interests will continue
to dominate us until we learn new methods of association.
Men follow party dictates not because of any
worship of party but simply because they have not yet
any will of their own. Until they have, they will be
used and manipulated and artificially stimulated by
those who can command sufficient money to engage
leaders for that purpose. Hypnosis will be our normal
state until we are roused to claim our own creative
power. The promise for the future is the power for
working together which lies latent in the great rank and
file of men and women to-day, and which must be brought
clearly to their view and utilized in the right way. If
we see no fruitful future for our political life under the
present scheme of party domination, if we can see no
<span class="pageno" id="Page_222">222</span>bearable future for our industrial life under the present
class domination, then some plan must be devised for
the will of the people to control the life of the people.
Fighting abuses is not our role, but the full understanding
that such fighting is a tilting at wind-mills. The
abuses in themselves amount to nothing. Our role is to
leave them alone and build up our own life with our power
of creative citizenship. We need to-day: (1) an <em>active</em>
citizenship, (2) a <em>responsible</em> citizenship, (3) a <em>creative</em>
citizenship—a citizenship building its own world, creating
its own political and social structure, constructing
its own life forever.</p>

<p class="c013">Our faith in democracy rests ultimately on the belief
that men have this creative power. Our vital relation
to the Infinite consists in our capacity, as its generating
force, to bring forth a group idea, to create the common
life. But we have at present no machinery for a constructive
life. The organization of neighborhood groups
will give us this machinery.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us see how neighborhood groups can create a
united will, a genuine public opinion.</p>

<p class="c013">First, neighborhood groups will naturally discuss their
local, intimate, personal concerns. The platitudes and
insincerities of the party meeting will give way to the
homely realities of the neighborhood meeting. These
common interests will become the political issues. Then,
and not till then, politics, external at no point to any
vital need, will represent the life of our people. Then
when we see clearly that the affairs of city and state are
our affairs, we shall no longer be apathetic or indifferent
in regard to politics. We all <em>are</em> interested in our own
affairs. When our daily needs become the basis of
politics, then party will no longer be left in control because
politics bore us, because we feel that they have
nothing to do with us.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_223">223</span>Already the daily lives of people are passing into the
area of government through the increased social legislation
of all our states during the last few years. In 1912
a national party was organized with social legislation as
part of its platform. The introduction of social programs
into party platforms means that a powerful influence
is at work to change American politics from a
machine to a living thing. When the political questions
were chiefly the tariff, the trust, the currency, closely as
these questions affected the lives of people, there was so
little general knowledge in regard to them that most of
us could contribute little to their solution. The social
legislation of the last few years has taken up crime,
poverty, disease, which we all know a great deal about:
laws have been passed regarding child labor, workmen’s
compensation, occupational disease, prison reform, tuberculosis,
mothers’ pensions, the liquor question, minimum
wage, employment agencies etc.</p>

<p class="c013">Tammany is built up on the most intimate local work:
no family, no child, is unknown to its organization. And
it is founded on the long view: votes are not crudely
bought—always; the boy is found a job, the father
is helped through his illness, the worn-out mother is sent
for a holiday to the country. As politics comes to mean
state employment bureaus, sickness and accident insurance,
mothers’ pensions, Tammany is being shorn of
much of its power.</p>

<p class="c013">We are sometimes told, however, that while it is conceded
that campaign issues should be made up from
our intimate, everyday needs, yet it is feared that on
each question a different split would come, and thus
politics would be too confusing and could not be
“handled.” Neighborhood organization is going to help
us meet this difficulty. In non-partisan neighborhood
associations we shall have different alignments on every
<span class="pageno" id="Page_224">224</span>question. Moreover, we shall have different alignments
on the same question in different years. Thus the rigidity
of the party organization disappears. The party
meeting is to the neighborhood meeting what the victrola
is to the human voice: the partisan assembly utters
what has been impressed upon it, you hear the machine
beating its own rhythm; the neighborhood meeting will
give the fresh ever-varied voices from the hearts of men.
The party system and the genuine group system is the
difference between machine-made and man-made. And
this may be true of a good government organization as
well as of a Tammany organization—it is true wherever
the machine is put above the man. We can get no force
without freshness, and you cannot get freshness from
a machine, only from living men. Just the very thing
which costs the party money—keeping its members
together—is its condemnation. Men will make up their
minds on question after question in their neighborhood
groups. Then they will vote according to these conclusions.
Party dictation will never cease until we get
group conviction. If our political life is going to show
any greater sensitiveness to our real wants and needs
than it has shown in the past, there must be some provision
made for considering and voting on questions
irrespective of party: you can not join a different party
every day, but you can separate political issues from
partisanship and vote for the thing you want. The
reason more of our real wants have not got expressed in
our politics is just because people cannot be held together
on many issues.</p>

<p class="c013">Again, if neighborhood organization takes the place of
party organization each question can be decided on its own
merit: we shall not have to ask, “How will the management
of this affect the power and prestige of our party?”</p>

<p class="c013">Also neighborhood groups can study problems, but
<span class="pageno" id="Page_225">225</span>the study of problems is fatal to party organization.
The party hands out the ephemeral comings-to-the-surface
of what will help the party, or the particularistic
interests dominating the party. Every question brought
forward at all is brought forward as a campaign issue.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover the group discovers and conserves the individual.
A party gathering is always a crowd. And party
methods are stereotyped, conventional. Under a party
system we have no spontaneous political life. The
party system gives no exercise to the judgment, it weakens
the will, it does away with personal responsibility. The
party, as the crowd, blots out the individual. Mass
suggestion is dominating our politics to-day. We shall
get rid of mass influence exactly as fast as we develop
the group consciousness. Men who belong to neighborhood
organizations will not be the stuff of which parties
are made. The party has prevented us from having
genuine group opinion; or if we do by any chance get a
group opinion now, it can usually speak only in opposition
to party, it cannot get incorporated in our political life.</p>

<p class="c013">Every one of us will have an opportunity to learn
collective thinking in the small, local, neighborhood
group. No one comes to his neighborhood group pledged
beforehand to any particular way of thinking. The
object of the party system is to stifle all difference of
opinion. Moreover, in partisan discussion you take one
of two sides; in neighborhood groups an infinitely varied
number of points of view can be brought out, and thus
the final decision will be richer from what it gains on
all sides. The neighborhood group which makes possible
different alignments on every question, allows ultimate
honesty in the expression of our views. If we get
into the habit of suppressing our differences, these differences
atrophy and we lose our sensitiveness to their
demands. And we have found that the expression and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_226">226</span>the maintenance of difference is the condition of the
full and free development of the race.</p>

<p class="c013">But we want not only a genuine public opinion, but
a progressive public opinion. We cannot understand
once for all, we must be constantly understanding anew.
At the same time that we see the necessity of creating
the common will and giving voice to it, we must bear in
mind that there should be no crystallizing process by
which any particular expression of the common will
should be taken as eternally right because it is the expression
of the common will. It is right for to-day but
not for to-morrow. The flaming fact is our daily life,
whatever it is, leaping forever and ever out of the common
will. Democracy is the ever-increasing volume of
power pouring through men and shaping itself as the
moment demands. Constitutional conventions are seeking
the machinery by which the reason and justice which
have existed among us can be utilized in our life. We
must go beyond this and unseal the springs which will
reveal the forms for the wisdom and justice of their day.
This is life itself, the direct and aboriginal constructor.
We meet with our neighbors at our civic club not in
order to accumulate facts, but to learn how to release
and how to control a constructive force which will build
daily for us the habitation of our needs. Then indeed will
our government be no longer directed by a “body of law,”
but by the self-renewing appearing of the will of the people.</p>

<p class="c013">The chief need of society to-day is an enlightened,
progressive and organized public opinion, and the first
step towards an enlightened and organized public opinion
is an enlightened and organized group opinion. When
public opinion becomes conscious of itself it will have a
justified confidence in itself. Then the “people,” born
of an associated life, will truly govern. Then shall we
at last really have an America.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_227">227</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_25">XXV<br/> <br/>NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATION VS. PARTY ORGANIZATION<br/> <br/><i>Leaders or Bosses?</i></h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">NEIGHBORHOOD organization will prove fatal
to party organization not only through the
creating of a genuine will of the people, but
also through the producing of real leaders to take the
place of the bosses.</p>

<p class="c013">American democracy has always been afraid of leadership.
Our constitutions of the eighteenth century provided
no one department to lead, no one man in the
legislature to lead. Therefore, as we must have leadership,
there has been much undefined, irresponsible leadership.
This has often meant corruption and abuse, bad
enough, but worse still it has meant the creation of
machinery for the perpetuation of corruption, the encouragement
of abuse. Under machine politics we choose
for our leaders the men who are most popular for the
moment or who have worked out the most thorough
system of patronage, or rather of course we do not choose
at all. We have two kinds of leaders under our party
system, both the wrong kind: we have our actual leaders,
the bosses, and our official leaders who have tended to
be men who could be managed by the party. Our officials
in their campaign speeches say that they are the
“servants of the people.” But we do not want “servants”
any more than we want bosses; we want genuine
leaders. Now that more and more direct power is being
given to the people it is especially necessary that we
<span class="pageno" id="Page_228">228</span>should not be led by machine bosses, but that we should
evolve the kind of leadership which will serve a true
democracy, which will be the expression of a true democracy,
and will guide it to democratic ends by democratic
methods.</p>

<p class="c013">We hope through local group organization to evolve
real leaders. There should be in a democracy some
sort of regular and ceaseless process by which ability of
all sorts should come to the top, and flexibility in our
forms so that new ability can always find its greatest
point of usefulness, and so that service which is no
longer useful can be replaced by that which is. In
neighborhood groups where we have different alignments
on different questions, there will be a tendency for those
to lead at any particular moment who are most competent
to lead in the particular matter in hand. Thus a
mechanical leadership will give place to a vital leadership.
Suppose the subject is sanitation. The man who
is most interested, who has the clearest view of the need
and who is its most insistent champion, will naturally
step forth as the leader in that. The man who knows
most about educational matters will lead in those, will
be chosen eventually for the school committee or for the
educational committee of the state legislature. Thus
the different leaders of a democracy appear. Here in
the neighborhood group leaders are born. Democracy
is the breeding-ground of aristocracy. You have all the
chance the world gives. In your neighborhood group
show the clearness of your mind, the strength of your
grip, your power to elicit and to guide coöperative action,
and you emerge as the leader of men.</p>

<p class="c013">No adequate statement can be made in regard to
leadership until it is studied in relation to group psychology.
The leadership of the British Premier, of
President Wilson, will become interesting studies when
<span class="pageno" id="Page_229">229</span>we have a better understanding of this subject. Meanwhile
let us look briefly at some of the qualities of
leadership.</p>

<p class="c013">The leader guides the group and is at the same time
himself guided by the group, is always a part of the
group. No one can truly lead except from within. One
danger of conceiving the leader as outside is that then
what ought to be group loyalty will become personal
loyalty. When we have a leader within the group these
two loyalties can merge.</p>

<p class="c013">The leader must have the instinct to trace every evil
to its cause, but, equally valuable, he must be able to
see the relative value of the cause to each one of his
group—in other words, to see the total relativity of the
cause to the group. He must draw out all the varying
needs of the neighborhood as related to the cause and
reconcile them in the remedy. A baby is ill; is the milk
perhaps too rich for babies? But probably the rest of
the neighborhood demands rich milk. All the neighborhood
needs in regard to milk must be elicited and reconciled
in the remedy for the sick child. That is, the
remedy cannot be thinner milk, but it may be a demand
that the milkman have separate milk for babies.</p>

<p class="c013">In other words the leader of our neighborhood group
must interpret our experience to us, must see all the
different points of view which underlie our daily activities
and also their connections, must adjust the varying
and often conflicting needs, must lead the group to an
understanding of its needs and to a unification of its
purpose. He must give form to things vague, things
latent, to mere tendencies. He must be able to lead us
to wise decisions, not to impose his own wise decisions
upon us. We need leaders, not masters or drivers.</p>

<p class="c013">The power of leadership is the power of integrating.
This is the power which creates community. You can
<span class="pageno" id="Page_230">230</span>see it when two or three strangers or casual acquaintances
are calling upon some one. With some hostesses you all
talk across at one another as entirely separate individuals,
pleasantly and friendlily, to be sure, but still across unbridged
chasms; while other hostesses have the power
of making you all feel for the moment related, as if you
were one little community for the time being. This is
a subtle as well as a valuable gift. It is one that leaders
of men must possess. It is thus that the collective will
is evolved from out the chaos of varied personality and
complex circumstance.</p>

<p class="c013">The skilful leader then does not rely on personal force;
he controls his group not by dominating but by expressing
it. He stimulates what is best in us; he unifies and
concentrates what we feel only gropingly and scatteringly,
but he never gets away from the current of which
we and he are both an integral part. He is a leader who
gives form to the inchoate energy in every man. The
person who influences me most is not he who does great
deeds but he who makes me feel I can do great deeds.
Many people tell me what I ought to do and just how I
ought to do it, but few have made me want to do something.
Who ever has struck fire out of me, aroused
me to action which I should not otherwise have taken,
he has been my leader. The community leader is he
who can liberate the greatest amount of energy in his
community.</p>

<p class="c013">Then the neighborhood leader must be a practical
politician. He must be able to interpret a neighborhood
not only to itself but to others. He must know not only
the need of every charwoman but how politics can
answer her call. He must know the great movements
of the present and their meaning, and he must know
how the smallest needs and the humblest powers of
his neighborhood can be fitted into the progressive
<span class="pageno" id="Page_231">231</span>movements of our time. His duty is to shape politics
continuously. As the satisfaction of one need, or the expression
of one latent power, reveals many more, he must
be always alert and ever ready to gather up the many
threads into one strand of united endeavor. He is the
patient watcher, the active spokesman, the sincere and
ardent exponent of a community consciousness. His
guiding, embracing and dominant thought is to make
that community consciousness articulate in government.</p>

<p class="c013">The politician is not a group but a crowd leader. The
leader of a crowd dominates because a crowd wants to
be dominated. Politicians do not try to convince but
to dazzle; they do not deal with facts but with formulæ
and vague generalizations, with the flag and the country.
If our politicians and our representatives are not
our most competent men, but those who have the greatest
power of suggestion and are most adroit in using it,
the proposal here is that we shall develop methods
which will produce real leaders. We are aiming now in
the reorganization of our state constitutions at responsible
official leadership instead of the irresponsible party
boss system which was necessary once because we had
to have leaders of some sort. How far this new movement
shall succeed, will depend on how far it has back
of it, or can be made to have back of it, the kind of
organization which will develop group not crowd leaders.</p>

<p class="c013">Through neighborhood organization we hope that real
leaders instead of bosses will be evolved. Democracy
does not tend to suppress leadership as is often stated;
it is the only organization of society which will bring out
leadership. As soon as we are given opportunities for
the release of the energy there is in us, heroes and leaders
will arise among us. These will draw their stimulus,
their passion, their life from all, and then in their turn
increase in all passion and power and creating force.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_232">232</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_26">XXVI<br/> <br/>NEIGHBORHOOD ORGANIZATION VS. PARTY ORGANIZATION<br/> <br/><i>A Responsible Neighborhood</i></h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE have said that neighborhood organization
must replace party organization by evolving
a true will of the people, by giving us
leaders instead of bosses, and by making possible a responsible
government to take the place of our irresponsible
party government. Let us now consider the last
point: the possibility of an integrated neighborhood
responsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">Under our party organization the men who formulate
the party platform do not have the official responsibility
of carrying it out. Moreover at present representative
government rests on the fallacy that when you delegate
the job you delegate the responsibility. Most of the
abuses which have crept in, business corruption and
political bossism alike, are due in large measure to this
delegating of responsibility. What we need is a kind
of government which will delegate the job but not the
responsibility. The case is somewhat like that of the
head of a business undertaking, who makes the men under
him responsible for their own work and still the final
responsibility rests with him. This is not divided responsibility
but shared responsibility—a very different thing.</p>

<p class="c013">Consider what happens when I want to get a bill
through the legislature. I may feel sure that the bill is
good and also that “the people” want it, but I can work
only through party, and at the state house I have to
face all the special interests bound up with party, all
the thousand and one “political” considerations, whether
<span class="pageno" id="Page_233">233</span>I succeed or fail. But of course I recognize the humor
of this statement: <em>I</em> ought never to try to get a bill
through the legislature; special and partial groups have
to do this simply because there is at present no other
way; there must be some other way, some recognized way.
We do not want to circumvent party but to replace party.</p>

<p class="c013">Our reform associations, while they have fought party,
have often endeavored to substitute their own organization
for the party organization. This has often been the
alternative offered to us—do we want good government
or poor government? We have not been asked if we
would like to govern ourselves. This is why Mitchell
lost last year in New York. One of the New York papers
during the campaign advised Mr. Mitchell “to get
nearer the people.” But it is not for government to
“get nearer” the people; it must identify itself with
the people. It isn’t enough for the “good” officials to
explain to the people what they are doing; they must
take the people into their counsels. If the Gary system
had ever been properly put up to the fathers it is doubtful
if they would have voted against it. Then a good
deal of this advice in regard to city officials “explaining”
their plans in all parts of the city leaves out of account
that the local people have a great deal to give. Some of
the most uneducated, so-called, of the fathers and mothers
might have had valuable points of view to offer in regard
to the practical workings of the Gary system.</p>

<p class="c013">Tammany won in New York and we heard many people
say, “Well, this is your democracy, the people want bad
government, the majority of people in New York city
have voted for it.” Nothing could be more superficial.
What the election in New York meant was that “the
people” are cleverer than was thought; they know that
the question should not be of “good” government or
“bad” government, but only of self-government, and the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_234">234</span>only way they have of expressing this is to vote against
a government which <em>seems</em> to disregard them.</p>

<p class="c013">To say, “We are good men, we are honest officials,
we are employing experts on education, sanitation <a id="tn234"/>etc.,
you must trust us,” will not do; some way must be devised
of connecting the experts and the people—that
is the first thing to be worked out, then some way of
taking the people into the counsels of city administration.
All of us criticize things we don’t know anything
about. As soon as we see the difficulties, <em>as soon as the
responsibility is put upon us</em>, our whole attitude changes.
Take the popular cry “Boston positions for Boston
people.” This seems a pretty good principle to superficial
thinking. But when we know that we have an
appropriation of $200,000 a year for a certain department,
and are looking for a man to administer it, when
we go into the matter and find that there are only two or
three experts for this position in the United States, and
that not one of these lives in Boston, the question takes
the concrete form, “Shall we allow $200,000 of our
money to be wasted through inept administration?”
It might be said, “But city governments do have the responsibility
and yet this is just what they are all the time
doing.” Certainly, because their position rests on patronage,
but I am proposing that the whole system be changed.</p>

<p class="c013">Neighborhood organization must be the method of
effective popular responsibility: first, by giving reality
to the political bond; secondly, by providing the machinery
by which a genuine control of the people can
be put into operation. At present nearly all our needs
are satisfied by external agencies, government or institutional.
Health societies offer health to us, recreation
associations teach us how to play, civic art leagues give
us more beautiful surroundings, associated charities give
us poor relief. A kind lady leads my girl to the dentist,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_235">235</span>a kind young man finds employment for my boy, a stern
officer of the city sees that my children are in their
places at school. I am constantly being acted upon, no
one is encouraging me to act. New York has one hundred
municipal welfare divisions and bureaus. Thus am
I robbed of my most precious possession—my responsibilities—for
only the active process of participation
can shape me for the social purpose.</p>

<p class="c013">But all this is to end. The community itself must grip
its own problems, must fill its needs, must make effective
its aspirations. If we want the latest scientific
knowledge in regard to food values, let us get an expert
to come to us, not wait for some society to send an
“agent” to us; if the stores near us are not selling at
fair prices, let us make a coöperative effort to set this
right. If we want milk and baby hygiene organized, our
own local doctors should, in proper coöperation with
experts on the one hand and the mothers on the other,
organize this branch of public service. The medical
experts may be employees of the government, but if the
plan of their service be worked out by all three—the
experts, the local doctors and the mothers—the results
will be: (1) that the needs of the neighborhood will really
be met, (2) much valuable time of the expert will be
saved, (3) a close follow-up will be possible, (4) the
expert can be called in whenever necessary through local
initiative, and (5) the machinery will be in existence by
which the study of that particular problem can be carried
on not as a special investigation but as a regular part of
neighborhood life.</p>

<p class="c013">Take another example. The Placement Bureau is
also a necessary public service: it needs the work of
experts and it needs pooled information and centralized
machinery; a parent cannot find out all the jobs available
in a city for boys of 16 in order to place one boy.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_236">236</span>But as long as the secretary of the Placement Bureau
appears in the home and takes this whole burden off the
parent, and off the community he is serving, his work
will not be well done. For the boy will suffer eventually:
he cannot be cut off from his community without being
hurt; community incentive is the greatest one we know,
and somehow there must be worked out some community
responsibility for that boy, as well as some responsibility
on his part to his community for standing up or falling
down on his job. I say that the boy will eventually
suffer; his community also will suffer, for it also has
need of him; moreover, the community will greatly
suffer by the loss of this opportunity of connecting it,
through the parents, with the whole industrial problem
of the city. The expert service of the Placement Bureau,
whether it is administered by city or state, should always
be joined to local initiative, effort and responsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">And so for every need. If we want well-managed
dances for our daughters, we, mothers and fathers, must
go and manage them. We do not exist on one side and
the government on the other. If you go to a municipal
dance-hall and see it managed by officials appointed
from City Hall, you say, “This is a government affair.”
But if you go to a schoolhouse and see a dance managed
by men and women chosen by the district, you say,
“This is a community affair, government has nothing
to do with this.” These two conceptions must mingle
before we can have any worthy political life. It must
be clearly seen that we can operate <em>as</em> government as
well as <em>with</em> government, that the citizen functions
through government and the government functions
through the citizen. It is not a municipal dance-hall
regulated by the city authorities which expresses the
right relation between civics and dancing, but dances
planned and managed by a neighborhood for itself.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_237">237</span>It is not the civic theatre which is the last word in
the relation of the drama to the people, it is a community
organized theatre. Art and civics do not meet merely
by the state presenting art to its members; the civic
expression of art is illustrated by locally managed festivals,
by community singing, a local orchestra or dramatic
club, community dancing etc. Those of us who are working
for civic art are working for this: for people to express
themselves in artistic forms and to organize themselves
for that purpose. The state must give the people every
opportunity for building up their own full, varied, healthful
life. It seems to be often thought that when the
state provides schools, parks, universities etc., there
you have the ideal state. But we must go beyond this
and find our ideal state in that which shows its members
how to build up its own life <em>in</em> schools, parks, universities
etc.<a id="r86"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f86"><sup>[86]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The question which the state must always be trying
to answer is how it can do more for its members at the
same time that it is stimulating them to do more for
themselves. No, more than this, its doing more for them
must take the form of their doing more for themselves.
Our modern problem is not, as one would think from
some of the writing on social legislation, how much the
increased activity of the state can do for the individual,
but how the increasing activity of the individual can
be state activity, how the widening of the sphere of
state activity can be a widening of our own activity.
The arguments for or against government action should
not take the form of how much or how little government
action we shall have, but entirely of how government
<span class="pageno" id="Page_238">238</span>action and self-action can coincide. Our one essential
political problem is always how to be the state, not,
putting the state on one side and the individual on the
other, to work out their respective provinces. I have
said in the chapter on “Our Political Dualism” that the
state and the individual are one, yet this is pure theory
until we make them one. But they can never be made
one through schemes of representation etc., only by the
intimate daily lives of all becoming the constituents of
the life of the state.</p>

<p class="c013">When a Mothers’ Club in one of the Boston School
Centres found a united want—that of keeping their
children off the streets on Saturday afternoon and giving
them some wholesome amusement—and decided to
meet this want by asking the city of Boston for permission
to use the moving-picture machine of the Dorchester
High School for fairy-story films, the mothers to manage
the undertaking, two significant facts stand out: (1) they
did not ask an outside agency to do something for them,
for the men and women of Dorchester, with all the
other men and women of Boston, <em>are</em> the city of Boston;
(2) they were not merely doing something for their children
on those Saturday afternoons, they were in a sense
officials of the city of Boston working for the youth of
Boston. These two conceptions must blend: we do not
do for government, government does not do for us, we
should be constantly the hands and feet, yes and the
head and heart of government.<a id="r87"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f87"><sup>[87]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">A most successful effort at neighborhood organization
<span class="pageno" id="Page_239">239</span>is that of the East Harlem Community Association,
which set East Harlem to work on its own problems:
first to investigate conditions, and then to find a way
of meeting these conditions. The most interesting point
about the whole scheme is that the work is not done
by “experts” or any one else from outside; there are no
paid visitors, but a committee of twelve mothers—one
colored woman, two Italian, two Jewish, two Irish, three
American, one Polish, and one German—are doing the
work well. As a result of the activities of the East Harlem
Community Association there are now in a public
school building of the neighborhood organized athletic
clubs, industrial classes, orchestra, glee, dramatic and
art clubs, concerts, good moving pictures, dances, big
brother and big sister groups, Mothers’ Leagues, Parents’
Associations, physical examination of school children
etc. Of course these community associations must
use expert advice and expert service. Exactly how this
relation will be most satisfactorily worked out we do not
yet clearly see.<a id="r88"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f88"><sup>[88]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">I give this merely as one illustration out of many
possible ones. The necessity of neighborhood organization
as the basis of future progress is seen by many
people to-day. In New York there is a vigorous movement
for “Neighborhood Associations”; there are four
already in active working order. If the main idea of
some of these is services rendered rather than neighborhood
organization; if others see too great a separation
between needs and the satisfaction of the needs, that is,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_240">240</span>if the neighborhoods are always to ask the questions
and the experts to find the answers, still these Associations
are an interesting and valuable part of the
neighborhood movement.<a id="r89"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f89"><sup>[89]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The acute problem of municipal life is how to make
us men and women of Boston feel that we <em>are</em> the city,
directly responsible for everything concerning it. Neighborhood
organization, brought into existence largely by
the growing feeling of each individual that he is responsible
for the life around him, itself then increases and
focuses this sense of responsibility. Neighborhood association
is vivid and intimate. Whereas the individual
seems lost in a big city, through his neighborhood he
not only becomes an integral part of the city but becomes
keenly conscious of his citizenship.</p>

<p class="c013">In a word, what we hope neighborhood organization
will do for the development of responsibility is this:
that men will learn that they are not to <em>influence</em> politics
through their local groups, they are to <em>be</em> politics. This
is the error of some of the reform associations: they
want to influence politics. This point of view will never
spell progress for us. When we have the organized neighborhood
group, when every man sees the problems of
political and social reorganization not as abstract matters
but as constituting his daily life, when men are so
educated in politics as to feel that they themselves are
politics functioning, and when our organization is such
that this functioning recoils on them, they will so shape
their conduct as to change the situation. Then when
they are conscious of themselves as masters of the situation
they will acknowledge their responsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">We see many signs around us to-day of an increased
sense of responsibility, of a longing for a self-expression
<span class="pageno" id="Page_241">241</span>that is not to be an individual self-expression but community
self-expression. Take the women’s clubs: in
their first stage their object was personal development;
in the second they wished to do something for their
town; in the present or third stage women are demanding
through some of the more progressive clubs, through
women’s municipal leagues etc., a more direct share in
community life. They are joining together not to benefit
themselves, not to benefit others, as others, but because
all together they wish to express their community—no,
they wish to <em>be</em> their community. They are not
satisfied with serving, but gathering up the service of
all in a common consciousness, each feels herself the
whole and seeks to express the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">But I do not mean that this greater realization of
community is confined to women. How often in the
past we have heard a man say complacently, “Well, I
suppose I must do my duty and go to the polls and vote
to-morrow,” or “I must show myself at that rally to-night.”
But a nobler idea than this is now filling the
minds of many men. They go to their civic club not
because it is their duty, but because just there working
together with their fellows for the furtherance of their
common aims, they find their greatest satisfaction. In
neighborhood groups men can find that self-realization
which becomes by the most wonderful miracle life can
offer us community realization. That is, I can learn
through my neighborhood group that I am the city, I
am the nation, and that fatal transference of responsibility
to an invisible and non-existent “they” can be
blotted out forever. When neighborhood organization
begins to teach that there is no “they,” that it is
always we, we, we, that mothers are responsible and
fathers are responsible, and young men are responsible,
and young women are responsible, for their
<span class="pageno" id="Page_242">242</span>city and their nation, it will begin to teach its chief
lesson.</p>

<p class="c013">Do I thrill with the passion of service, of joyful, voluntary
surrender to a mighty cause as I sail for France to
serve the great ends of the Allies? Social and political
organization are fatally at fault if they cannot give me
the same elation as I go to my Neighborhood Centre
and know that there too the world has vital need of me,
there too am I not only pouring myself out in world
service, but that I am, just in so far, creating, actually
building, a new and fairer world.</p>

<p class="c013">This is the finest word that can be said for neighborhood
organization, for my finding my place through
my response to every daily need of my nearest group.
For the great word I believe on this subject is not that I
<em>serve</em> my neighborhood, my city, my nation, but that
by this service I <em>become</em> my neighborhood, my city, my
nation. Surely at this hour in our history we can realize
this as never before. The soul of America is being born
to-day. The war is binding together class and class, alien
and American, men and women. We rejoice that we
are alive at this moment, but the keenness of my joy
is not because I can serve America but because I am
America. I save food in my home not in order that my
family income can meet the strain of the higher prices,
not because I can thereby help to send more food to the
Allies, but because I, saving the food of America for the
Allies and the world, am performing America’s task,
<em>am</em> therefore America. This is the deeper thought of
neighborhood organization: that through performing
my humblest duties I am creating the soul of this great
democracy.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">Neighborhood organization must then take the place
of party organization. The neighborhood group will
<span class="pageno" id="Page_243">243</span>answer many of the questions we have put to a party
organization which has remained deaf to our importunities,
dumb to all our entreaties. We have asked for
bread and received the stone times without number.
The rigid formality of the party means stultification,
annihilation. But group politics, made of the very stuff
of life, of the people of the groups, will express the inner,
intimate, ardent desires of spontaneous human beings,
and will contain within its circumference the possibility
of the fullest satisfaction of those desires. Group organization
gives a living, pulsing unity made up of the minds
and hearts and seasoned judgments of vital men and
women. Such organization is capable of unbroken
growth. And when this vine of life, which sends its roots
where every two or three are gathered together, has
rooted itself in the neighborhood, faithful care, sedulous
watching, loving ministration will appear with it, will
be the natural way of living. Its impalpable bonds
hold us together, and although we may differ on countless
questions, instead of flying asunder we work out the
form in political life which will shelter us and supply our
needs. Faithfulness to the neighborhood bond must
take the place of allegiance to party. Loyalty to a party
is loyalty to a thing—we want a living politics in which
loyalty is always intrinsic. And from the strength of
this living bond shall come the power of our united life.
Always the actor, never the spectator, is the rule of the
new democracy. Always the sharer, never the giver or
the receiver, is the order of our new life.</p>

<p class="c013">Do you think the neighborhood group too puny to
cope with this giant towering above us, drunk with the
blood of its many triumphs? The young David went
out to conquer Goliath, strong in the conviction of his
power. Cannot our cause justify an equal faith?</p>

<p class="c013">Is our daily life profane and only so far as we rise out
<span class="pageno" id="Page_244">244</span>of it do we approach the sacred life? Then no wonder
politics are what they have become. But this is not the
creed of men to-day: we believe in the sacredness of
all our life; we believe that Divinity is forever incarnating
in humanity, and so we believe in Humanity and
the common daily life of all men.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_245">245</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_27">XXVII<br/> <br/>FROM NEIGHBORHOOD TO NATION: THE UNIFYING STATE</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_3_0_5 c012">HOW can the will of the people be the sovereign
power of the state? There must be two
changes in our state: first, the state must be
the actual integration of living, local groups, thereby
finding ways of dealing directly with its individual members.
Secondly, other groups than neighborhood groups
must be represented in the state: the ever-increasing
multiple group life of to-day must be recognized and
given a responsible place in politics.<a id="r90"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f90"><sup>[90]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">First, every neighborhood must be organized; the
neighborhood groups must then be integrated, through
larger intermediary groups, into a true state. Neither
our cities nor our states can ever be properly administered
until representatives from neighborhood groups
meet to discuss and thereby to correlate the needs of
all parts of the city, of all parts of the state. Social
workers and medical experts have a conference on tuberculosis,
social workers and educational experts have a
conference on industrial education. We must now
develop the methods by which the citizens also are represented
at these conferences. We must go beyond this
(for certain organizations, as the National Settlement
Conference at least, do already have neighborhood
representation), and develop the methods by which
regular meetings of representatives from neighborhood
organizations meet to discuss all city and state problems.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_246">246</span>Further still, we must give official recognition
to such gatherings, we must make them a regular part
of government. The neighborhood must be actually,
not theoretically, an integral part of city, of state, of
nation.</p>

<p class="c013">When Massachusetts is thus organized, the neighborhood
groups and intermediary, or district, groups should
send representatives to city council and state legislature.
The Senate might be composed of experts—experts
in education, in housing, in sanitation etc.<a id="r91"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f91"><sup>[91]</sup></a> The
neighborhood and district centres would receive reports
from their representatives to city council and state
legislature and take measures on these reports. They
should also be required to send regular reports up to
their representative bodies. We should have a definitely
organized and strongly articulated network of personal
interest and representative reporting. Then the state
legislature must devise ways of dealing not only with
the district group but with the neighborhood groups
through the district group, and thus with every individual
in the commonwealth. The nation too must have
a real connection with every little neighborhood centre
through state and district bodies.<a id="r92"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f92"><sup>[92]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">America at war has found a way of getting word from
Washington to the smallest local units. The Council
of National Defense has a “Section of Coöperation with
States.” This is connected with a State Council of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_247">247</span>Defense in every state. In most cases the State Council
is connected with County Councils, and these often
with councils in cities and towns. Beyond this the
Council of National Defense has recently (February,
1918) recommended the extension of county organization
by the creation of Community Councils in every
school district. Its official statement opens with this
sentence: “The first nine months of the war have shown
the vital importance of developing an official nation-wide
organization reaching into the smallest communities
to mobilize and make available the efforts of the
whole people for the prosecution of the war.” And it
goes on to say that the government must have such
close contact with small units that personal relation
with all the citizens is possible.</p>

<p class="c013">President Wilson in endorsing this step, said, “[This
is an] advance of vital significance. It will, I believe,
result when thoroughly carried out in welding the nation
together as no nation of great size has ever been welded
before.... It is only by extending your organization
to small communities that every citizen of the state can
be reached.”</p>

<p class="c013">Thus when the government found that it must provide
means to its hands for keeping constantly in touch
with the whole membership of the nation, it planned
to do this by the encouragement and fostering of neighborhood
organization. The nation is now seeking the
individual through neighborhood groups. It is using
the School Centres (it recommends the schoolhouse as
the best centre for community organization) for the
teaching of Food and Fuel Conservation, for Liberty
Loan and Red Cross work, for recruiting for the army,
for enlisting workers for war industries, for teaching the
necessity and methods of increasing the food supply,
for plans to relieve transportation by coöperative shipments
<span class="pageno" id="Page_248">248</span>and deliveries, for patriotic education etc.<a id="r93"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f93"><sup>[93]</sup></a> This
“patriotic education” has an interesting side. In a
country which is even nominally a democracy you cannot
win a war without explaining your aims and your
policy and carrying your people with you step by step.
If beyond this the country wishes to be really a democracy,
the neighborhood groups must have a share in
forming the aims and the policy.</p>

<p class="c013">Of course one would always prefer this to be a movement
from below up rather than from above down, but
it is not impossible for the two movements to go on at
the same time, as they are in fact doing now with the
rapid development of spontaneous local organization.
There were Community Councils in existence in fact
if not in name before the recommendation of the Council
of National Defense.<a id="r94"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f94"><sup>[94]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Through these non-partisan councils not only national
policy can be explained and spread throughout the
country, but also what one locality thinks out that is
good can be reported to Washington and thus handed
on to other sections of the country. It is a plan for
sending the news backwards and forwards from individual
to nation, from nation to individual, and it is
also a plan for correlating the problems of the local
community with the problems of the nation and of
coöperating nations.</p>

<p class="c013">But why should we be more efficiently organized for
war than for peace? Is our proverbial carelessness to
be pricked into effectiveness only by emergency calls?
Is the only motive you can offer us for efficiency—to
<span class="pageno" id="Page_249">249</span>win? Or, if that is an instinctive desire, can we not
change the goal and be as eager to win other things as
war?</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">I speak of the new state as resting upon integrated
neighborhood groups.<a id="r95"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f95"><sup>[95]</sup></a> While the changes necessary to
bring this about would have to be planned and authorized
by constitutional conventions, its psychological
basis would be: (1) the fact that we are ready for membership
in a larger group only by experience first in the
smaller group, and (2) the natural tendency for a real
group to seek other groups. Let us look at this second
point.</p>

<p class="c013">We have seen the process of the single group evolving.
But contemporaneously a thousand other unities are
a-making. Every group once become conscious of itself
instinctively seeks other groups with which to unite to
form a larger whole. Alone it cannot be effective. As
individual progress depends upon the degree of interpenetration,
so group progress depends upon the interpenetration
of group and group. For convenience I
speak of each group as a whole, but from a philosophical
point of view there is no whole, only an infinite striving
for wholeness, only the <em>principle</em> of wholeness forever
leading us on.</p>

<p class="c013">This is the social law: the law which connects neighborhood
with neighborhood. The reason we want
neighborhood organization is not to keep people within
their neighborhoods but to get them out. The movement
for neighborhood organization is a deliberate effort to
get people to identify themselves actually, not sentimentally,
with a larger and larger collective unit than
the neighborhood. We may be able through our neighborhood
<span class="pageno" id="Page_250">250</span>group to learn the social process, to learn to
evolve the social will, but the question before us is whether
we have enough political genius to apply this method to
city organization, national organization, and international
organization. City must join with city, state with state,
actually, not through party. Finally nation must join
with nation.</p>

<p class="c013">The recommendation of the Council of National Defense
which has been mentioned above would repay
careful reading for the indications which one finds in it
of the double purpose of neighborhood organization. It
is definitely stated that the importance of the Community
Council is in: (1) initiating work to meet its own war
needs; and (2) in making all its local resources available
for the nation. And again it is stated that: (1) in a
democracy local emergencies can best be met by local
action; and (2) that each local district should feel the
duty of bearing its full share of the national burden.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus our national government clearly sees and specifically
states that neighborhood organization is both for
the neighborhood and for the nation: that it looks in,
it looks out. Thus that which we are coming to understand
as the true social process receives practical recognition
in government policy.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that neighborhood must join with neighborhood
to form the state. This joining of neighborhood
and neighborhood can be done neither directly nor
imaginatively. It cannot be done directly: representation
is necessary not only because the numbers would
be too great for all neighborhoods to meet together, but
because even if it were physically possible we should
have created a crowd not a society. Theoretically when
you have large numbers you get a big, composite consciousness
made up of infinite kinds of fitting together
of infinite kinds of individuals, but practically this varied
<span class="pageno" id="Page_251">251</span>and multiplied fitting together is not possible beyond a
certain number. There must be representatives from
the smallest units to the larger and larger, up to the
federal state.</p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, neighborhoods cannot join with neighborhoods
through the imagination alone. Various people
have asserted that now we have large cities and solidarity
cannot come by actual acquaintance, it must be
got by appropriate appeals to the imagination, by having,
for instance, courses of lectures to tell one part of
a city about another part. But this alone will never
be successful. Real solidarity will never be accomplished
except by beginning somewhere the joining of one small
group with another. We are told too that the uneducated
man cannot think beyond his particular section
of the universe. We can teach him to think beyond his
particular section of the universe by actually making
him participate in other sections through connecting
his section with others. We are capable of being faithful
to large groups as well as small, to complex groups
as well as simple, to our city, to our nation, but this can
be effected only by a certain process, and that process,
while it may begin by a stimulation of the imagination,
must, if it is going to bring forth results in real life, be
a matter of actual experience. Only by actual union,
not by appeals to the imagination, can the various and
varied neighborhood groups be made the constituents
of a sound, normal, unpartisan city life. Then being a
member of a neighborhood group will mean at the same
time being a member and a responsible member of the
state.</p>

<p class="c013">I have spoken of the psychological tendency for group
to seek group. Moreover, it is not possible to isolate yourself
in your local group because few local needs can be
met without joining with other localities, which have
<span class="pageno" id="Page_252">252</span>these same needs, in order to secure city or state action.
We cannot get municipal regulation for the dance-hall
in our neighborhood without joining with other neighborhoods
which want the same thing and securing municipal
regulation for all city dance-halls. If we want better
housing laws, grants for industrial education, we join
with other groups who want these things and become
the state. And even if some need seems purely local,
the method of satisfying it ought not to be for the South
End to pull as hard as it can for a new ward building,
say, while the North End is also pulling as hard as it
can for a new ward building, and the winner of such
tug-of-war to get the appropriation. If the South End
wants a new ward building it should understand how
much money is available for ward buildings, and if only
enough for one this year, consider where it is most
needed. Probably, whatever the evidence, it will be
decided that it is most needed in the South End, but a
step will be taken towards a different kind of decision in
the future.</p>

<p class="c013">And we join not only to secure city and state but also
federal action. If we want a river or harbor appropriation,
we go to Congress. And if such demands are
supplied at present on the log-rolling basis, we can only
hope that this will not always be so. When group organization
has vitalized our whole political life, there may
then be some chance that log-rolling will be repudiated.</p>

<p class="c013">And we do not stop even at Washington. Immigration
is a national and international problem, but the
immigrant may live next door to you, and thus the immigration
question becomes one of nearest concern. This
intricate interweaving of our life allows no man to live
to himself or to his neighborhood.</p>

<p class="c013">Then when neighborhood joins with neighborhood all
the lessons learned in the simple group must be practised
<span class="pageno" id="Page_253">253</span>in the complex one. As the group lesson includes
not only my responsibility <em>to</em> my group but my responsibility
<em>for</em> my group, so I learn not only my duty to my
neighborhood but that I am responsible for my neighborhood.
Also it is seen that as the individuals of a
group are interdependent, so the various groups are
interdependent, and the problem is to understand just
in what way they are interdependent and how they can
be adjusted to one another. The process of the joining
of several groups into a larger whole is exactly the same
as the joining of individuals to form a group—a reciprocal
interaction and correlation.</p>

<p class="c013">The usual notion is that our neighborhood association
is to evolve an idea, a plan, and then when we go to
represent it at a meeting of neighborhood associations
from different parts of the city that we are to try to
push through the plan of action decided on by our own
local group. If we do not do this, we are not supposed
to be loyal. But we are certainly to do nothing of
the kind. We are to try to evolve the collective idea
which shall represent the new group, that is, the various
neighborhood associations all acting together. We are
told that we must not sacrifice the interests of the particular
group we represent. No, but also we must not
try to make its interests prevail against those of others.
Its real interests are the interests of the whole.</p>

<p class="c013">And then when we have learned to be truly citizens
of Boston, we must discover how Boston and other
cities, how cities and the rural communities can join.
And so on and so on. At last the “real” state appears.
We are pragmatists because we do not want to unite
with the state imaginatively, we want to be the state;
we want to actualize and feel our way every moment,
let every group open the way for a larger group, let every
circumference become the centre of a new circumference.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_254">254</span>My neighborhood group opens the path to the
State.</p>

<p class="c013">But neighborhoods coöperating actively with the city
government is not to-day a dream. Marcus M. Marks,
President of the Borough of Manhattan, New York City,
in 1914 divided Manhattan into sixteen neighborhoods,
and appointed for each a neighborhood commission
composed of business men, professional men, mechanics,
clerks etc.—a thoroughly representative body chosen
irrespective of party lines. Mr. Marks’ avowed object
was to obtain a knowledge of the needs of his constituents,
to form connecting links between neighborhoods
and the city government. And these bodies need not
exist dormant until their advice is asked. Sections 1
and 2 of the Rules and Regulations read:</p>

<p class="c020">“1. The Commissions shall recommend, or suggest,
to the Borough President, for his consideration
and advice, matters which, in their opinion will
be of benefit to their districts and to the City.</p>

<p class="c020">“2. The Commissions shall receive from the Borough
President suggestions or recommendations for
their consideration as to matters affecting their
districts, and report back their conclusions
with respect thereto.”</p>

<p class="c019">Moreover, beyond the recommendations of the Commission,
the coöperation of the whole neighborhood is
sought. “Whenever the commissions are in doubt as
to the policy they desire to advocate and wish to further
sound the sentiment of their localities, meetings similar
to town-meetings are held, usually in the local schoolhouse.”
The “neighborhoods” of Manhattan have
coöperated with the city government in such matters
as bus franchise, markets, location of tracks, floating
baths, pavement construction, sewerage etc. One of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_255">255</span>the results of this plan, Mr. Marks tells us, is that many
types of improvement which were formerly opposed,
such as sewerage construction by the owners of abutting
property, now receive the support of the citizens because
there is opportunity for them to understand fully
the needs of the situation and even to employ their own
expert if they wish.</p>

<p class="c013">The chairmen of the twelve Neighborhood Commissions
form a body called the Manhattan Commission.
This meets to confer with the President on matters affecting
the interests of the entire borough.<a id="r96"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f96"><sup>[96]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">This plan, while not yet ideal, particularly in so far
as the commissions are appointed from above, is most
interesting to all those who are looking towards neighborhood
organization as the basis of the new state.</p>

<p class="c013">To summarize: neighborhood groups join with other
neighborhood groups to form the city—then only shall
we understand what it is to be the city; neighborhood
groups join with other neighborhood groups to form the
state—then only shall we <a id="tn255"/>understand what it is to be
the state. We do not begin with a unified state which
delegates authority; we begin with the neighborhood
group and create the state ourselves. Thus is the state
built up through the intimate intertwining of all.</p>

<p class="c013">But this is not a crude and external federalism. We
have not transferred the unit of democracy from the
individual to the group. It is the individual man who
must feel himself the unit of city government, of state
government: he has not delegated his responsibility to
<span class="pageno" id="Page_256">256</span>his neighborhood group; he has direct relation with
larger wholes. I have no medieval idea of mediate articulation,
of individuals forming groups and groups forming
the nation. Mechanical federalism we have long
outgrown. The members of the nation are to be individuals,
not groups. The movement for neighborhood
organization is from one point of view a movement to
give the individual political effectiveness—it is an
individualistic not a collectivistic movement, paradoxical
as this may seem to superficial thinking. But, as the
whole structure of government must rest on the individual,
it must have its roots within that place where
you can get nearest to him, and where his latent powers
can best be freed and actualized—his local group.</p>

<p class="c013">What are we ultimately seeking through neighborhood
organization? To find the individual. But let no one
think that the movement for neighborhood organization
is a new movement. Our neighborhood organization,
we are often told, had its origin in the New England
town-meeting. Yes, and far beyond that in the early
institutions of our English ancestors. That our national
life must be grounded in the daily, intimate life of all men
is the teaching of the whole long stream of English history.</p>

<p class="c013">We have seen that the increasing activity of the state,
its social policies and social legislation, demands the
activity of every man. We have seen in considering
direct government that the activity of every man is
not enough if we mean merely his activity at the polling
booths. With the inclusion of all men and women (practically
accomplished) in the suffrage, with the rapidly
increasing acceptance of direct government, the <em>extensive</em>
work of the democratic impulse has ended. Now
the <em>intensive</em> work of democracy must begin. The great
historic task of the Anglo-Saxon people has been to find
wise and reasoned forms for the expression of individual
<span class="pageno" id="Page_257">257</span>responsibility, has been so to bulwark the rights of the
individual as to provide at the same time for the unity
and stability of the state. They have done this externally
by making the machinery of representative government.
We want to-day to do it spiritually, to direct the
spiritual currents in their flow and interflow so that we
have not only the external interpenetration—choosing
representatives etc.—but the deeper interpenetration
which shows the minds and needs and wants of all men.</p>

<p class="c013">We can satisfy our wants only by a genuine union and
communion of all, only in the friendly outpouring of
heart to heart. We have come to the time when we see
that the machinery of government can be useful to us
only so far as it is a living thing: the souls of men are the
stones of Heaven, the life of every man must contribute
fundamentally to the growth of the state. So the world
spirit seeks freedom and finds it in a more and more
perfect union of true individuals. <em>The relation of neighbors
one to another must be integrated into the substance of
the state.</em> Politics must take democracy from its external
expression of representation to the expression of that
inner meaning hidden in the intermingling of all men.
This is our part to-day—thus shall we take our place
in the great task of our race. Our political life began
in the small group, but it has taken us long to evolve
our relation to a national life, and meanwhile much of
the significance and richness of the local life has been
lost. Back now to the local unit we must go with all
that we have accumulated, to find in and through that
our complete realization. Back we must go to this
small primary unit if we would understand the meaning
of democracy, if we would get the fruits of democracy.
As Voltaire said, “The spirit of France is the candle of
Europe,” so must the spirit of the neighborhood be the
candle of the nation.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_258">258</span>
  <h3 class="c000" id="pt_3b">THE OCCUPATIONAL GROUP</h3>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<h4 class="c016" id="ch_28">XXVIII<br/> <br/>POLITICAL PLURALISM</h4>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_4_0_5 c012">ALL that I have written has been based on the
assumption of the unifying state. Moreover
I have spoken of neighborhood organization as
if it were possible to take it for granted that the neighborhood
group is to be the basis of the new state. The
truth of both these assumptions is denied by some of
our most able thinkers.</p>

<p class="c013">The unified state is now discredited in many quarters.
Syndicalists, guild socialists, some of the Liberals in
England, some of the advocates of occupational representation
in America, and a growing school of writers
who might be called political pluralists are throwing
the burden of much proof upon the state, and are proposing
group organization as the next step in political
method. To some the idea of the state is abhorrent. One
writer says, “The last hundred years marked in all countries
the beginning of the dissolution of the State and of
the resurrection of corporate life [trade unions etc.]....
In the face of this growth of syndicalism in every direction,
... it is no longer venturesome to assert that the
State is dead.”</p>

<p class="c013">Others like to keep the word “state” but differ much
as to the position it is to occupy in the new order: to
some it seems to be merely a kind of mucilage to keep
the various groups together; with others the state is to
hold the ring while different groups fight out their differences.
Still other thinkers, while seeing the open door
<span class="pageno" id="Page_259">259</span>to scepticism in regard to the state, are nevertheless
not ready to pass through, but, preserving the instinct
and the reverence for the unity of the state, propose
as the most immediate object of our study how the
unity can be brought about, what is to be the true and
perfect bond of union between the multiple groups of
our modern life. All these thinkers, differing widely as
they do, yet may be roughly classed together as the upholders
of a multiple group organization as the basis
for a new state.</p>

<p class="c013">This movement is partly a reaction against an atomistic
sovereignty, the so-called theory of “subjective” rights, a
“senseless” geographical representation, a much berated
parliamentary system, and partly the wish to give industrial
workers a larger share in the control of industry
and in government.</p>

<p class="c013">The opposition to “numerical representation” has
been growing for some time. We were told thirty years
ago by Le Prins that vocational representation is “the
way out of the domination of the majority,” that the
vocational group is the “natural” group “spontaneously
generated in the womb of a nation.” Twenty-five years
ago Benoist said that the state must recognize private
associations: universities, chambers of commerce, professional
associations, societies of agriculture, syndicates
of workmen—“<span lang="fr">en un mot tout ce qui a corps et vie dans
la nation</span>.” If the state is to correspond to reality, it
must recognize, Benoist insisted, all this group life, all
these interests, within it. Moreover, he urged, with
our present pulverized suffrage, with sovereignty divided
among millions, we are in a state of anarchy; only group
representation will save us from “la force stupide de
nombre.” M. Léon Duguit has given us a so-called
“objective” theory of law which means for many people
a new conception of the state.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_260">260</span>Many say that it is absurd for representation to be
based on the mere chance of residence as is the case when
the geographical district is the unit. The territorial
principle is going, we are told, and that of similar occupational
interests will take its place. Again some people
are suggesting that both principles should be recognized
in our government: that one house in Parliament represent
geographical areas, the other occupations.<a id="r97"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f97"><sup>[97]</sup></a> No one
has yet, however, made any proposal of this kind definite
enough to serve as a basis of discussion.</p>

<p class="c013">Syndicalism demands the abolition of the “state”
while—through its organization of the syndicate of
workers, the union of syndicates of the same town or
region and the federation of these unions—it erects a
system of its own controlled entirely by the workers.
Syndicalism has gained many adherents lately because
of the present reaction against socialism. People do
not want the Servile State and, therefore, many think
they do not want any state.</p>

<p class="c013">In England a new school is arising which is equally
opposed to syndicalism and to the bureaucracy of state
socialism. Or rather it takes half of each. Guild socialism
believes in state ownership of the means of production,
but that the control of each industry or “guild”—appointment
of officers, hours and conditions of work
etc.—should be vested in the membership of the industry.
The syndicalists throw over the state entirely, the
guild socialists believe in the “co-management” of the
state. There are to be two sets of machinery side by
side but quite distinct: that based on the occupational
group will be concerned with economic considerations,
the other with “political” considerations, the first culminating
<span class="pageno" id="Page_261">261</span>in a national Guild Congress, and the second in
the State.<a id="r98"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f98"><sup>[98]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">“Guild Socialism,” edited by A. R. Orage, gives in
some detail this systematic plan already familiar to
readers of the <cite>New Age</cite>. A later book of the same
school “Authority, Liberty and Function,” by Ramiro
de Maeztu, concerns itself less with detail and more with
the philosophical basis of the new order. The value
of this book consists in its emphasis on the functional
principle.<a id="r99"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f99"><sup>[99]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Ernest Barker of Oxford, although he formulates
no definite system, is a political pluralist.</p>

<p class="c013">John Neville Figgis makes an important contribution
to pluralism,<a id="r100"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f100"><sup>[100]</sup></a> and although he has a case to plead for
the church, he is equally emphatic that all the local
groups which really make our life should be fostered and
given an increased authority.</p>

<p class="c013">In America vocational representation has many distinguished
advocates, among them Professor Felix Adler
and Professor H. A. Overstreet. Mr. Herbert Croly, who
has given profound thought to the trend of democracy,
advocates giving increased power and legal recognition
to the powerful groups growing up within the state.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_262">262</span>Mr. Harold Laski is a pronounced political pluralist,
especially in his emphasis on the advantage of multiple,
varied and freely developing groups for the enrichment
and enhancement of our whole life. Mr. Laski’s book,
“Studies in the Problem of Sovereignty,” is one of the
most thought-stimulating bits of modern political writing:
it does away with the fetich of the abstract state—it
is above all an attempt to look at things as they
are rather than as we imagine them to be; it shows
that states are not supreme by striking examples of
organizations within the state claiming and winning the
right to refuse obedience to the state; it sees the strength
and the variety of our group life to-day as a significant
fact for political method; it is a recognition, to an extent,
of the group principle—it sees that sovereignty is not
in people as a mass; it pleads for a revivification of local
life, and finally it shows us, implicitly, not only that we
need to-day a new state, but that the new state must
be a great moral force.<a id="r101"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f101"><sup>[101]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps the most interesting contribution of the pluralists
is their clear showing that “a single unitary state
with a single sovereignty” is not true to the facts of
life to-day. Mr. Barker says, “Every state is something
of a federal society and contains different national groups,
different churches, different economic organizations, each
exercising its measure of control over its members.” The
following instances are cited to show the present tendency
of different groups to claim autonomy:</p>

<p class="c013">1. Religious groups are claiming rights as groups.
Many churchmen would like to establish the autonomy
of the church. It is impossible to have undenominational
<span class="pageno" id="Page_263">263</span>instruction in the schools of England because of
the claims of the church.</p>

<p class="c013">2. There is a political movement towards the recognition
of national groups. The state in England is passing
Home Rule Acts and Welsh Disestablishment Acts
to meet the claims of national groups. “All Europe is
convulsed with a struggle of which one object is a regrouping
of men in ways which will fulfil national ideals.”</p>

<p class="c013">3. “The Trade-Unions claim to be free groups.”
“Trade-unions have recovered from Parliament more
than they have lost in the courts.”</p>

<p class="c013">Let us consider the arguments of the pluralist school,
as they form the most interesting, the most suggestive
and the most important theory of politics now before
us. It seems to me that there are four weaknesses in
the pluralist school<a id="r102"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f102"><sup>[102]</sup></a> which must be corrected before we
can take from them the torch to light us on our political
way: (1) some of the pluralists ostensibly found their
books on pragmatic philosophy and yet in their inability
to reconcile the distributive and collective they do not
accept the latest teachings of pragmatism, for pragmatism
does not end with a distributive pluralism, (2) the
movement is in part a reaction to a misunderstood Hegelianism,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_264">264</span>(3) many of the pluralists are professed followers
of medieval doctrine, (4) their thinking is not based on
a scientific study of the group, which weakens the force
of their theories of “objective” rights and sovereignty,
much as these latter are an advance on our old theories
of “subjective” rights and a sovereignty based on an
atomistic conception of society.</p>

<p class="c013">First, the underlying problem of pluralism and pragmatism
is, as James proclaims, the relation of “collective”
and “distributive.” The problem of to-day, we
all agree, is the discovery of the kind of federalism which
will make the parts live fully in the whole, the whole
live fully in the parts. But this is the central problem
of philosophy which has stirred the ages. The heart of
James’ difficulty was just this: how can many consciousnesses
be at the same time one consciousness? How can
the same identical fact experience itself so diversely?
How can you be the absolute and the individual? It is
the old, old struggle which has enmeshed so many, which
some of our philosophers have transcended by the deeper
intuitions, sure that life is a continuous flow and not
spasmodic appearance, disappearance and reappearance.
James struggled long with this problem, but the outcome
was sure. His spirit could not be bound by intellectualistic
logic, the logic of identity. He was finally
forced to adopt a higher form of rationality. He gave
up conceptualistic logic “fairly, squarely and irrevocably,”
and knew by deepest inner testimony that “states
of consciousness can separate and combine themselves
freely and keep their own identity unchanged while
forming parts of simultaneous fields of experience of
wider scope.” James always saw the strung-along universe,
but he also saw the unifying principle which is
working towards its goal. “That secret,” he tells us,
“of a continuous life which the universe knows by heart
<span class="pageno" id="Page_265">265</span>and acts on every instant cannot be a contradiction
incarnate.... Our intelligence must keep on speaking
terms with the universe.”</p>

<p class="c013">When James found that the “all-form” and the
“each-forms” are not incompatible, he found the secret
of federalism. It is our task to work out in practical
politics this speculative truth which the great philosophers
have presented to us. The words absolute and
individual veil it to us, but substitute state and individual
and the problem comes down to the plane of our
actual working everyday life. It may be interesting to
read philosophy, but the thrilling thing for every man of
us to do is to make it come true. We may be heartened
by our sojourns on Sinai, but no man may live his life in
the clouds. And what does pragmatism mean if not
just this? We can only, as James told us again and
again, understand the collective and distributive by
living. Life is the true revealer: I can never understand
the whole by reason, only when the heart-beat
of the whole throbs through me as the pulse of my
own being.</p>

<p class="c013">If we in our neighborhood group live James’ philosophy
of the compounding of consciousness, if we obey the
true doctrine, that each individual is not only himself
but the state—for the fulness of life overflows—then
will the perfect form of federalism appear and express
itself, for then we have the spirit of federalism creating
its own form. Political philosophers talk of the state,
but there is no state until we make it. It is pure theory.
We, every man and woman to-day, must create his small
group first, and then, through its compounding with
other groups, it ascends from stage to stage until the
federal state appears. Thus do we understand by actual
living how collective experiences can claim identity with
their constituent parts, how “your experience and mine
<span class="pageno" id="Page_266">266</span>can be members of a world-experience.” In our neighborhood
groups we claim identity with the whole collective
will, at that point we are the collective will.</p>

<p class="c013">Unless multiple sovereignty can mean ascending rather
than parallel groups it will leave out the deepest truth
which philosophy has brought us. But surely the political
pluralists who are open admirers of James will refuse
with him to stay enmeshed in sterile intellectualism, in
the narrow and emasculated logic of identity. Confessedly
disciples of James, will they not carry their discipleship
a step further? Have they not with James a
wish for a world that does not fall into “discontinuous
pieces,” for “a higher denomination than that distributed,
strung-along and flowing sort of reality which
we finite beings [now] swim in”? Their groups must
be the state each at its separate point. When they see
this truth clearly, then the leadership to which their
insight entitles them will be theirs.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that the political pluralists are fighting a
misunderstood Hegelianism. Do they adopt the crudely
popular conception of the Hegelian state as something
“above and beyond” men, as a separate entity virtually
independent of men? Such a conception is fundamentally
wrong and wholly against the spirit of Hegel. As
James found collective experience not independent of
distributive experience, as he reconciled the two through
the “compounding of consciousness,” so Hegel’s related
parts received their meaning only in the conception of
total relativity. The soul of Hegelianism is total relativity,
but this is the essence of the compounding of
consciousness. As for James the related parts and their
relations appear simultaneously and with equal reality,
so in Hegel’s total relativity: the members of the state
in their right relation to one another appear in all the
different degrees of reality together as one whole total
<span class="pageno" id="Page_267">267</span>relativity—never sundered, never warring against the
true Self, the Whole.</p>

<p class="c013">But there is the real Hegel and the Hegel who misapplied
his own doctrine, who preached the absolutism
of a Prussian State. Green and Bosanquet in measure
more or less full taught the true Hegelian doctrine. But
for a number of years the false leadings of Hegel have
been uppermost in people’s minds, and there has been
a reaction to their teaching due to the panic we all feel
at the mere thought of an absolute monarch and an
irresponsible state. The present behavior of Prussia of
course tends to increase the panic, and the fashion of
jeering at Hegel and his “misguided” followers is wide-spread.
But while many English writers are raging
against Hegelianism, at the same time the English are
pouring out in unstinted measure themselves and their
substance to establish on earth Hegel’s absolute in the
actual form of an International League!</p>

<p class="c013">The political pluralists whom we are now considering,
believing that a collective and distributive sovereignty
cannot exist together, throw overboard collective sovereignty.
When they accept the compounding of consciousness
taught by their own master, James, then they
will see that true Hegelianism finds its actualized form
in federalism.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps they would be able to do this sooner if they
could rid themselves of the Middle Ages! Many of the
political pluralists deliberately announce that they are
accepting medieval doctrine.</p>

<p class="c013">In the Middle Ages the group was the political unit.
The medieval man was always the member of a group—of
the guild in the town, of the manor in the country.
But this was followed by the theory of the individual
not as a member of a group but as a member of a nation,
and we have always considered this on the whole an
<span class="pageno" id="Page_268">268</span>advance step. When, therefore, the separate groups
are again proposed as the political units, we are going
back to a political theory which we have long outgrown
and which obviously cramps the individual. It is true
that the individual as the basis of government has remained
an empty theory. The man with political power
has been the rich and strong man. There has been little
chance for the individual as an individual to become
a force in the state. In reaction against such selfish
autocracy people propose a return to the Middle Ages.
This is not the solution. Now is the critical moment.
If we imitate the Middle Ages and adopt political pluralism
we lose our chance to invent our own forms for our
larger ideas.</p>

<p class="c013">Again, balancing groups were loosely held together by
what has been called a federal bond. Therefore we are
to look to the medieval empire for inspiration in forming
the modern state. But the union of church and guild,
boroughs and shires of the Middle Ages seems to me
neither to bear much resemblance to a modern federal
state nor to approach the ideal federal state. And if
we learn anything from medieval decentralization—guild
and church and commune—it is that political
and economic power cannot be separated.</p>

<p class="c013">Much as we owe the Middle Ages, have we not progressed
since then? Are our insights, our ideals, our
purposes at all the same? Medieval theory, it is true,
had the conception of the living group, and this had a
large influence on legal theory.<a id="r103"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f103"><sup>[103]</sup></a> Also medieval theory
struggled from first to last to reconcile its notion of individual
freedom,<a id="r104"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f104"><sup>[104]</sup></a> the patent fact of manifold groups,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_269">269</span>and the growing notion of a sovereign state. Our problem
it is true is the same to-day, but the Middle Ages
hold more warnings than lessons for us. While there
was much that was good about the medieval guilds, we
certainly do not want to go back to all the weaknesses
of medieval cities: the jealousies of the guilds, their
selfishness, the unsatisfactory compromises between
them, the impossibility of sufficient agreement either to
maintain internal order or to pursue successful outside
relations.</p>

<p class="c013">The Middle Ages had not worked out any form by
which the parts could be related to the whole without
the result either of despotism of the more powerful
parts or anarchy of all the parts. Moreover, in the
Middle Ages it was true on the whole that your relation
to your class separated you from other classes: you
could not belong to many groups at once. Status was
the basis of the Middle Ages. This is exactly the tendency
we must avoid in any plan for the direct representation
of industrial workers in the state.</p>

<p class="c013">Is our modern life entirely barren of ideas with which
to meet its own problems? Must twentieth century
thought with all the richness which our intricately complex
life has woven into it try to force itself into the
embryonic moulds of the Middle Ages?</p>

<p class="c013">The most serious error, however, of the political
pluralists is one we are all making: we have not begun
a scientific study of group psychology. No one yet
knows enough of the laws of associated life to have the
proper foundations for political thinking. The pluralists
apotheosize the group but do not study the group.
They talk of sovereignty without seeking the source of
sovereignty.</p>

<p class="c013">In the next three chapters I shall consider what the
recent recognition of the group, meagre as it is at present,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_270">270</span>teaches us in regard to pluralism. Pluralism is the dominant
thought to-day in philosophy, in politics, in economics,
in jurisprudence, in sociology, in many schemes of
social reorganization proposed by social workers, therefore
we must consider it carefully—what it holds for
us, what it must guard against.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_271">271</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_29">XXIX<br/> <br/>POLITICAL PLURALISM AND SOVEREIGNTY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">WHAT does group psychology teach us, as far
as we at present understand it, in regard
to sovereignty? How does the group get
its power? By each one giving up his sovereignty?
Never. By some one from outside presenting it with
authority? No, although that is the basis of much
of our older legal theory. Real authority inheres in a
genuine whole. The individual is sovereign over himself
as far as he unifies the heterogeneous elements of
his nature. Two people are sovereign over themselves
as far as they are capable of creating one out of two. A
group is sovereign over itself as far as it is capable of
creating one out of several or many. A state is sovereign
only as it has the power of creating one in which all are.
Sovereignty is the power engendered by a complete
interdependence becoming conscious of itself. Sovereignty
is the imperative of a true collective will. It is
not something academic, it is produced by actual living
with others—we learn it only through group life. By
the subtle process of interpenetration a collective sovereignty
is evolved from a distributed sovereignty. Just
so can and must, by the law of their being, groups unite
to form larger groups, these larger groups to form a
world-group.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that many of the pluralists are opposed
to the monistic state because they do not see that a
collective and distributive sovereignty can exist together.
They talk of the Many and the One without analyzing
the process by which the Many and the One are creating
<span class="pageno" id="Page_272">272</span>each other. We now see that the problem of the
compounding of consciousness, of the One and the Many,
need not be left either to an intellectualistic or to an
intuitive metaphysics. It is to be solved through a
laboratory study of group psychology. When we have
that, we shall not have to argue any more about the One
and the Many: we shall actually see the Many and the
One emerging at the same time; we can then work out
the laws of the relation of the One (the state) to the
Many (the individual), and of the Many (the individual)
to the One (the state), not as a metaphysical question
but on a scientific basis. And the process of the Many
becoming One is the process by which sovereignty is
created. Our conceptions of sovereignty can no longer
rest on mere abstractions, theory, speculative thought.
How absurdly inadequate such processes are to explain
the living, interweaving web of humanity. The question
of sovereignty concerns the organization of men
(which obviously must be fitted to their nature), hence
it finds its answer through the psychological analysis
of man.</p>

<p class="c013">The seeking of the organs of society which are the
immediate source of legal sanctions, the seeking of the
ultimate source of political control—these are the
quests of jurists and political philosophers. To their
search must be added a study of the process by which
a genuine sovereignty is created. The political pluralists
are reacting against the sovereignty which our legal
theory postulates, for they see that there is no such thing
actually, but if sovereignty is at present a legal fiction,
the matter need not rest there—we must seek to find
how a genuine social and political control can be produced.
The understanding of self-government, of democracy,
is bound up with the conception of sovereignty as a
psychological process.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_273">273</span>The idea of sovereignty held by guild socialists<a id="r105"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f105"><sup>[105]</sup></a> is
based largely on the so-called “objective” theory of
<i lang="fr">le droit</i> expounded by M. Léon Duguit of Bordeaux.
This theory is accepted as the “juridical basis” of a new
state, what some call the functionarist state.<a id="r106"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f106"><sup>[106]</sup></a> Man,
Duguit tells us, has no rights as man, but only as a
member of the social order. His rights are based on the
fact of social interdependence—on his relations and
consequent obligations. In fact he has no rights, but
duties and powers. All power and all obligation is found
in “social solidarity,” in a constantly evolving social
solidarity.<a id="r107"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f107"><sup>[107]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The elaboration of this theory is Duguit’s large contribution
to political thought. His <i lang="fr">droit</i> is a dynamic
law—it can never be captured and fixed. The essential
weakness of his doctrine is that he denies the possibility
of a collective will, which means that he ignores the
psychology of the social process. He and his followers
reject the notion of a collective will as “<i lang="fr">concept de l’esprit
<span class="pageno" id="Page_274">274</span>dénué de toute réalité positive</i>.” If this is their idea of a
collective will, they are right to reject it. I ask for its
acceptance only so far as it can be proved to have positive
reality. There is only one way in the world by
which you can ever know whether there is a collective
will, and that is by actually trying to make one; you
need not discuss a collective will as a theory. If experiment
proves to us that we cannot have a collective will,
we must accept the verdict. Duguit thinks that when we
talk of the sovereignty of the people we mean an abstract
sovereignty; the new psychology means by the
sovereignty of the people that which they actually
create. It is true that we have none at present. Duguit
is perfectly right in opposing the old theory of the “sovereign
state.”</p>

<p class="c013">But Duguit says that if there were a collective will
there is no reason why it should impose itself on the
individual wills. “<i lang="fr">L’affirmation que la collectivité a le
pouvoir légitime de commander force qu’elle est la collectivité,
est une affirmation d’ordre métaphysique <a id="tn274"/>oú religieux....</i>”
This in itself shows a misunderstanding of
the evolution of a collective will. This school does not
seem to understand that every one must contribute to the
collective will; ideally it would have no power unless this
happened, actually we can only be constantly approaching
this ideal.<a id="r108"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f108"><sup>[108]</sup></a> Duguit makes a thing-in-itself of <i lang="fr">la volonté
nationale</i>—it is a most insidious fallacy which we all
fall into again and again. But we can never accept
that kind of a collective will. We believe in a collective
will only so far as it is <em>really</em> forming from out our actual
daily life of intermingling men and women. There is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_275">275</span>nothing “metaphysical” or “religious” about this.
Duguit says metaphysics “<i lang="fr">doit rester étranger à toute
jurisprudence</i>....” We agree to that and insist that
jurisprudence must be founded on social psychology.</p>

<p class="c013">Five people produce a collective idea, a collective will.
That will becomes at once an imperative upon those
five people. It is not an imperative upon any one else.
On the other hand no one else can make imperatives for
those five people. It has been generated by the social
process which is a self-sufficing, all-inclusive process. The
same process which creates the collective will creates at
the same time the imperative of the collective will. It
is absolutely impossible to give self-government: no
one has the right to give it; no one has the power to
give it. Group A <em>allows</em> group B to govern itself? This
is an empty permission unless B has <em>learned how</em> to govern
itself. Self-government must always be grown.
Sovereignty is always a psychological process.</p>

<p class="c013">Many of Duguit’s errors come from a misconception
of the social process. Violently opposed to a collective
will, he sees in the individual thought and will the only
genuine “<i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>” (it is interesting to notice that
<i lang="fr">la chose en soi</i> finds a place in the thought of many pluralists).
Not admitting the process of “community” he
asserts that <i lang="fr">la règle de droit</i> is anterior and superior to the
state; he does not see the true relation of <i lang="fr">le droit</i> to
<i lang="fr">l’état</i>, that they evolve together, that the same process
which creates <i lang="fr">le droit</i> creates <i lang="fr">l’état</i>.<a id="r109"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f109"><sup>[109]</sup></a> The will of the
people, he insists, can not create <i lang="fr">le droit</i>. Here he does
not see the unity of the social process. He separates will
and purpose and the activity of the reciprocal interchange
instead of seeing them as one. Certainly the will
of the people does not create <i lang="fr">le droit</i>, but the social
process in its entire unity does. “Positive law must
<span class="pageno" id="Page_276">276</span>constantly follow <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i>.” Of course. “<i lang="fr">Le droit
objectif</i> is constantly evolving.” Certainly. But how
evolving? Here is where we disagree. The social process
creates <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i>, and will is an essential part
of the social process. Purpose is an essential part of the
social process. Separate the parts of the social process
and you have a different idea of jurisprudence, of democracy,
of political institutions. Aim is all-important for
Duguit. The rule of <i lang="fr">le droit</i> is the rule of conscious ends:
only the aim gives a will its worth; if the aim is juridical
(conformed to <i lang="fr">la règle de droit</i>), then the will is juridical.
Thus Duguit’s pragmatism is one which has not yet rid
itself of absolute standards. It might be urged that it
has, because he finds his absolute standards in “social
solidarity.” But any one who believes that the individual
will is a <i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>, and who separates the
elements of the social process, does not wholly admit
the self-sufficing character of that process.</p>

<p class="c013">The modern tendency in many quarters, however, in
regard to conceptions of social practice, is to substitute
ends for will.<a id="r110"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f110"><sup>[110]</sup></a> This is a perfectly comprehensible reaction,
but future jurisprudence must certainly unite these
two ideas. Professor Jethro Brown says, “The justification
for governmental action is found not in consent
but in the purpose it serves.” Not in that alone.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_277">277</span>De Maeztu says, “The profound secret of associations
is not that men have need of one another, but that they
need the same thing.” These two ideas can merge.
Professor Brown makes the common good the basis
of the new doctrine of natural right.<a id="r111"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f111"><sup>[111]</sup></a> But we must all
remember, what I do not doubt this writer does remember,
that purpose can never be a <i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>, and
that, of the utmost importance, the “new natural law”
can be brought into manifestation only by certain modes
of association.</p>

<p class="c013">It is true, as Duguit says, that the state has the “right”
to will because of the thing willed, that it has no “subjective”
right to will, that its justification is in its purpose.
(This is of course the truth in regard to all our
“rights”; they are justified only by the use we make
of them.) And yet there is a truth in the old idea of the
“right” of a collectivity to will. These two ideas must
be synthesized. They <em>are</em> synthesized by the new psychology
which sees the purpose forming the will at the
same time as the will forms the purpose, which finds no
separation anywhere in the social process. We can never
think of purpose as something in front which leads us on,
as the carrot the donkey. Purpose is never in front of us,
it appears at every moment with the appearance of will.
Thus the new school of jurisprudence founded on social
psychology cannot be a teleological school alone, but
must be founded on all the elements which constitute
the social process. Ideals do not operate in a vacuum.
This theorists seem sometimes to forget, but those of
us who have had tragic experience of this truth are
likely to give more emphasis to the interaction of purpose,
will and activity, past and present activity. The
recognition that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> is the product of a group process
swallows up the question as to whether it is “objective”
<span class="pageno" id="Page_278">278</span>or “subjective”; it is neither, it is both; we look at the
matter quite differently.<a id="r112"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f112"><sup>[112]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">To sum up this point. We must all, I think, agree with
the “objective” conception of law in its essence, but not
in its dividing the social process, a true unity, into separate
parts. Rights arise from relation, and purpose is bound
up in the relation. The relation of men to one another
and to the object sought are part of the same process.
Duguit has rendered us invaluable service in his insistence
that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> must be based on “<i lang="fr">la vie actuelle</i>,” but
he does not take the one step further and see that <i lang="fr">le droit</i>
is born within the <em>group</em>, that there is an essential law
of the group as different from other modes of association,
and that this has many implications.</p>

<p class="c013">The <i lang="fr">droit</i> evolved by a group is the <i lang="fr">droit</i> of that group.
The <i lang="fr">droit</i> evolved by a state-group (we agree that there
is no state-group yet, the state is evolving, the <i lang="fr">droit</i> is
evolving, there is only an approximate state, an approximately
genuine <i lang="fr">droit</i>) is the <i lang="fr">droit</i> of the state. The
contribution of the new psychology is that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> comes
from relation and is always in relation. The warning of
the new psychology to the advocates of vocational representation
is that the <i lang="fr">droit</i> (either as law or right)<a id="r113"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f113"><sup>[113]</sup></a> evolved
by men of one occupation only will represent too little
intermingling to express the “community” truth. We
don’t want doctors’ ethics and lawyers’ ethics, and so on
through the <a id="tn278"/>various groups. That is just the trouble
<span class="pageno" id="Page_279">279</span>at present. Employers and employees meet in conference.
Watch those conferences. The difference of interest
is not always the whole difficulty; there is also the
difference of standard. Capitalist ethics and workman
ethics are often opposed. We must accept <i lang="fr">le droit</i> as a
social product, as a group product, but we must have
groups which will unify interests and standards. Law
and politics can be founded on nothing but vital modes
of association.</p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Roscoe Pound’s exposition of modern law is just
here a great help to political theory. The essential, the
vital part of his teaching, is, not his theory of law based
on interests, not his emphasis upon relation, but his
bringing together of these two ideas. This takes us out
of the vague, nebulous region of much of the older legal
and political theory, and shows us the actual method of
living our daily lives. All that he says of relation implies
that we must seek and bring into use those modes of association
which will reveal true interests, actual interests,
yet not particularist interests but the interests discovered
through group relations—employer and employed,
master and servant, landlord and tenant, etc.
But, and this is of great importance, these groups must
be made into genuine groups. If law is to be a group-product,
we must see that our groups are real groups,
we must find the true principle of association. For this
we need, as I must continually repeat, the study of group
psychology. “Life,” “man,” “society,” are coming
to have little meaning for us: it is your life and my
life with which we are concerned, not “man” but the
men we see around us, not “society” but the many
societies in which we pass our lives. “Social” values?
We want individual values, but individual values discovered
through group relations.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up this point: (1) law should be a group-product,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_280">280</span>(2) we should therefore have genuine groups,
(3) political method must be such that the “law” of the
group can become embodied in our legislation.</p>

<p class="c013">M. Duguit’s disregarding of the laws of that intermingling
which is the basis of his <i lang="fr">droit objectif</i> leads to
a partial understanding only of the vote. Voting is for
him still in a way a particularist matter. To be sure he
calls it a function and that marks a certain advance.
Moreover he wishes us to consider the vote an “objective”
power, an “objective” duty, not a “subjective” right.
This is an alluring theory in a pragmatic age. And if
you see it leading to syndicalism which you have already
accepted beforehand, it is all the more alluring! But to
call the vote a function is only half the story; as long as
it is a particularist vote, it does not help us much to
have it rest on function, or rather, it goes just half the
way. It must rest on the intermingling of all my functions,
it must rest on the intermingling of all my functions
with all the functions of all the others; it must
rest indeed on social solidarity, but a social solidarity
in which every man interpenetrating with every other
is thereby approaching a whole of which he is the whole
at one point.</p>

<p class="c013">Duguit, full of Rousseau, does not think it possible to
have a collective sovereignty without every one having
an equal share of this collective sovereignty, and he
most strenuously opposes <i lang="fr">le suffrage universel égalitaire</i>.
But <i lang="fr">le suffrage universel égalitaire</i> staring all the obvious
<em>in</em>equalities of man in the face, Rousseau’s divided
sovereignty based on an indivisible sovereignty—all
these things no longer trouble you when you see the
vote as the expression at one point of some approximate
whole produced by the intermingling of men.</p>

<p class="c013">True sovereignty and true functionalism are not
opposed; the vote resting on “subjective” right and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_281">281</span>the vote resting on “objective” power are not opposed,
but the particularist vote and the genuinely
individual vote are opposed. Any doctrine which contains
a trace of particularism in any form cannot gain
our allegiance.</p>

<p class="c013">Again Duguit’s ignoring of the psychology of the
social process leads him to the separation of governors
and governed. This separation is for him the essential
fact of the state. Sovereignty is with those individuals
who can impose their will upon others. He says no
one can give orders to himself, but as a matter of fact
no one can really give orders to any one but himself.<a id="r114"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f114"><sup>[114]</sup></a>
Here Duguit confuses present facts and future possibilities.
Let us <em>be</em> the state, let us be sovereign—over
ourselves. As the problem in the life of each one of us
is to find the way to unify the warring elements within
us—as only thus do we gain sovereignty over ourselves—so
the problem is the same for the state. Duguit is
right in saying that the German theory of auto-limitation
is unnecessary, but not in the reasons he gives for
it. A psychic entity is subordinate to the <i lang="fr">droit</i> which
itself evolves not by auto-limitation, but by the essential
and intrinsic law of the group.</p>

<p class="c013">But Duguit has done us large service not only in his
doctrine of a law, a right, born of our actual life, of our
always evolving life, but also in his insistence on the
individual which makes him one of the builders of the
new individualism.<a id="r115"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f115"><sup>[115]</sup></a> We see in the gradual transformation
of the idea of natural law which took place among
<span class="pageno" id="Page_282">282</span>the French jurists of the end of the nineteenth century,
the struggle of the old particularism with the feelings-out
for the true individualism. That the French have
been slow to give up individual rights, that many of
them have not given them up for any collective theory,
but, feeling the truth underneath the old doctrine,
have sought (and found) a different interpretation,
a different basis and a different use, has helped us
all immeasurably.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">Group psychology shows us the process of man creating
social power, evolving his own “rights.” We now see
that man’s only rights are group-rights. These are based
on his activity in the group—you can call it function
if you like, only unless you are careful that tends to
become mechanical, and it tends to an organic functionalism
in which lurk many dangers. But the main
point for us to grasp is that we can never understand
rights by an abstract discussion of “subjective” <i>vs.</i> “objective”—only
by the closest study of the process by
which these rights are evolved. The true basis of rights
is neither a “mystical” idea of related personalities, nor
is it to be found entirely in the relation of the associated
to the object sought; a truly modern conception of law
synthesizes these two ideas. “Function,” de Maeztu tells
us “[is] a quality independent of the wills of men.”
This is a meaningless sentence to the new psychology.
At present the exposition of the “objective” theory of
law is largely a polemic against the “subjective.” When
we understand more of group psychology, and it can be
put forth in a positive manner, it will win many more
adherents.</p>

<p class="c013">Then as soon as the psychological foundation of law
is clearly seen, the sovereignty of the state in its old
meaning will be neither acclaimed nor denied. An understanding
<span class="pageno" id="Page_283">283</span>of the group process teaches us the true nature
of sovereignty. We can agree with the pluralist school
that the present state has no “right” to sovereignty;<a id="r116"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f116"><sup>[116]</sup></a>
we can go further and say that the state will never be
more than ideally sovereign, further still and say that
the whole idea of sovereignty must be recast and take
a different place in political science. And yet, with the
meaning given to it by present psychology, it is perhaps
the most vital thought of the new politics. The
sovereign is not the crowd, it is not millions of unrelated
atoms, but men joining to form a real whole. The atomistic
idea of sovereignty is dead, we all agree, but we
may learn to define sovereignty differently.</p>

<p class="c013">Curiously enough, some of the pluralists are acknowledged
followers of Gierke and Maitland, and base much
of their doctrine on the “real personality” of the group.
But the group can create its own personality only by
the “compounding of consciousness,” by every member
being at one and the same time an individual and the
“real personality.” If it is possible for the members of
a group to evolve a unified consciousness, a common
idea, a collective will, for the many to become really one,
not in a mystical sense but as an actual fact, for the
group to have a real not a fictional personality, this
process can be carried on through group and group, our
task, an infinite one, to evolve a state with a real personality.
The imagination of the born pluralist stops
with the group.<a id="r117"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f117"><sup>[117]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But even in regard to the group the pluralists seem
<span class="pageno" id="Page_284">284</span>sometimes to fall into contradictions. Sovereignty, we
are often told, must be decentralized and divided among
the local units. But according to their own theory by
whom is the sovereignty to be divided? The fact is that
the local units must <em>grow</em> sovereignty, that we want
to revivify local life not for the purpose of breaking
up sovereignty, but for the purpose of creating a real
sovereignty.</p>

<p class="c013">The pluralists always tell us that the unified state proceeds
from the One to the Many; that is why they discard
the unified state. This is not true of the unify<em>ing</em>
state which I am trying to indicate. They think that
the only alternative to pluralism is where you begin
with the whole. That is, it is true, the classic monism,
but we know now that authority is to proceed from
the Many to the One, from the smallest neighborhood
group up to the city, the state, the nation. This
is the process of life, always a unifying through the
interpenetration of the Many—Oneness an infinite
goal.</p>

<p class="c013">This is expressed more accurately by saying, as I have
elsewhere, that the One and the Many are constantly
creating each other. The pluralists object to the One
that comes before the Many. They are right, but we
need not therefore give up oneness. When we say that
there is the One which comes <em>from</em> the Many, this
does not mean that the One is <em>above</em> the Many. The
deepest truth of life is that the interrelating by which
both are at the same time a-making is constant. This
must be clearly understood in the building of the new
state.</p>

<p class="c013">The essential error in the theory of distributed sovereignty
is that each group has an isolated sovereignty.
The truth is that each should represent the whole united
sovereignty at one point as each individual is his whole
<span class="pageno" id="Page_285">285</span>group at one point. An understanding of this fact seems
to me absolutely necessary to further development of
political theory.<a id="r118"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f118"><sup>[118]</sup></a> This does not mean that the state
must come first, that the group gets its power from the
state. This the pluralists rightfully resent. The power
within the group is its own genetically and wholly. But
the same force which forms a group may form a group of
groups.</p>

<p class="c013">But the conclusion drawn by some pluralists from the
theory of “real personality” is that the state is superfluous
because a corporate personality has the right
to assert autonomy over itself. They thus acknowledge
that pluralism means for them group and group and
group side by side. But here they are surely wrong.
They ignore the implications of the psychological fact
that power developed within the group does not cease
with the formation of the group. That very same force
which has bound the individuals together in the group
(and which the theory of “real personality” recognizes)
goes on working, you cannot stop it; it is the fundamental
force of life, of all nature, of all humanity, the
universal law of being—the out-reaching for the purpose
of further unifying. If this force goes on working
after the group is formed, what becomes of it? It must
reach out to embrace other groups in order to repeat
exactly the same process.</p>

<p class="c013">When you stop your automobile without stopping
your engine, the power which runs your car goes on
working exactly the same, but is completely lost. It
only makes a noise. Do we want this to happen to our
groups? Are they to end only in disagreeable noises?
In order that the group-force shall not be lost, we must
provide means for it to go on working effectively after
<span class="pageno" id="Page_286">286</span>it is no longer needed within the group, so to speak. We
must provide ways for it to go out to meet the life force
of other groups, the new power thus generated again
and endlessly to seek new forms of unification. No
“whole” can imprison us infinite beings. The centre of
to-day is the circumference of to-morrow.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus while the state is not necessary to grant authority,
it is the natural outcome of the uniting groups.
The state must be the collective mind embodying the
moral will and purpose of All. From living group to
living group to the “real” state—such must be our line
of evolution.</p>

<p class="c013">Sovereignty, it is true, is a fact, not a theory. Whoever
can gain obedience has the sovereign power. But
we must go beyond this and seek those political methods
by which the command shall be with those who have
evolved a genuine authority, that is, an authority evolved
by what I have called the true social process. We must
go beyond this and seek those methods by which a genuine
authority <em>can</em> be evolved, by which the true social process
shall be everywhere possible. To repeat: first, the true
social process must be given full opportunity and scope,
then it must be made the basis of political method. Then
shall we see emerging a genuine authority which we can
all acclaim as sovereign. There is, I agree with the
pluralists, a great advantage in that authority being
multiple and varied, but a static pluralism, so to speak,
would be as bad as a static monism. The groups are
always reaching out <em>towards</em> unity. Our safeguard
against crystallization is that every fresh unity means
(as I have tried to show in <a href="#ch_3" class="pginternal">chapter III</a>) the throwing out
of myriad fresh differences—our safeguard is that the
universe knows no static unity. Unification means
sterilization; unifying means a perpetual generating.
We do not want the unified sovereignty of Germany; but
<span class="pageno" id="Page_287">287</span>when you put the individual and the group first, you get
unify<em>ing</em> sovereignty.<a id="r119"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f119"><sup>[119]</sup></a></p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_288">288</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_30">XXX<br/> <br/>POLITICAL PLURALISM AND FUNCTIONALISM<br/> <br/><i>The Service State vs. the “Sovereign State”</i></h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE idea at the bottom of occupational representation
which has won it many adherents is
that of the interdependence of function. Most
of the people who advocate vocational representation
believe in what they call an organic democracy. This
leads them to believe that the group not the individual
should be the unit of government: a man in an industry
is to vote not as an individual but as a department member
because he is thus representing his function. But
man has many functions and then there is something
left over. It is just because our place in the whole can
never be bounded by any one function that we cannot
accept the organism of the Middle Ages, the organic
society of certain sociologists, or the “organic democracy”
of the upholders of occupational representation.</p>

<p class="c013">Man has many functions or rather he is the interplay
of many functions. The child grows to manhood through
interpenetrating—with his family, at school, at work,
with his play group, with his art group: the carpenter
may join the Arts and Crafts to find there an actualization
of spirit for which he is fitted, and so on and so on.
All the different sides of our nature develop by the process
of compounding. If you shut a man up in his occupation,
you refuse him the opportunity of full growth.
The task has been given to humanity to “Know thyself,”
but man cannot know himself without knowing
the many sides of his self. His essential self is the possibility
of the multiple expression of spirit.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_289">289</span>We see this principle operating every day in our own
lives: we cannot do one thing well by doing one thing
alone. The interrelations are so manifold that each of
us does far more than he wishes, not because our tendency
is a senseless ramifying, but because we cannot do our
own job well unless we do many other things: we do not
take on the extra activities as an <em>ex</em>tension of our life,
but simply as an <em>in</em>tensification of our life at the point
of our particular interest. Ideally one should fulfil all
the functions of man in order to perform one function.
No one ought to teach without being a parent! etc.
etc. Man must identify himself with humanity. The
great lesson which the pluralist school has to teach is
that man cannot do this imaginatively but only actually,
through his group relations. What it leaves out is that
the task is manifold and infinite because man must
identify himself with a manifold and infinite number of
groups before he has embraced humanity.</p>

<p class="c013">Society, however, does not consist merely of the union
of all these various groups. There is a more subtle process
going on—the interlocking of groups. And in these
interlocking groups we have not only the same people
taking up different activities, but actually representing
different interests. In some groups I may be an employer,
in others an employee. I can be a workman and
a stockholder. Men have many loyalties. It is no longer
true that I belong to such a class and must always identify
myself with its interests. I may belong at the same
time to the college club and the business women’s club,
to the Players’ League (representing the actor’s point of
view) and to the Drama Association (representing the
playgoer’s point of view). I not only thus get opposite
points of view, but I myself can contribute to two opposite
points of view. The importance of this has not been
fully estimated. I may have to say the collective I or
<span class="pageno" id="Page_290">290</span>we first of my basket-ball team, next of my trade-union,
then of my church club or citizens’ league or neighborhood
association, and the lines may cross and recross
many times. It is just these cross lines that are of inestimable
value in the development of society.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus while two groups may be competing, certain
members of these groups may be working together for
the satisfaction of some interest. This is recognized
by law. A man can be a member of different corporations.
Our possibility of association is not exhausted
by contributing to the production of one legal person,
we may help to create many different legal persons,
each with an entirely different set of liabilities.
Then there may be some sort of relation with a
definite legal status existing between these bodies: I
as member of one corporation may have relation with
myself as member of another corporation. We see this
clearly in the case of corporations, but it is what is taking
place everywhere, this interlocking and overlapping
of groups, and is I feel one of the neglected factors in
the argument of those who are advocating occupational
representation. What we are working for is a plastic
social organization: not only in the sense of a flexible interaction
between the groups, but in the sense of an elasticity
which makes it possible for individuals to change
constantly their relations, their groups, without destroying
social cohesion. Vocational representation would
tend to crystallize us into definite permanent groups.</p>

<p class="c013">The present advocacy of organic democracy or “functionalism”
is obviously, and in many cases explicitly, a
reaction to “individualism”: the functional group must
be the unit because the individual is so feared. I agree
with the denunciation of the individual if you mean the
man who seeks only his own advantage. But have we
not already seen that that is not the true individual?
<span class="pageno" id="Page_291">291</span>And do we not see now that man is a multiple being?
Life is a recognition of multitudinous multiplicity.
Politics must be shaped for that. Our task is to make
straight the paths for the coming of the Lord—the
true Individual. Man is struggling for the freedom of
his nature. What is his nature? Manifold being. You
must have as many different kinds of groups as there
are powers in man—this does away with “organic
democracy.”</p>

<p class="c013">The state cannot be composed of groups because no
group nor any number of groups can contain the whole
of me, and the ideal state demands the whole of me. No
one group can seize the whole of me; no one group can
seize any part of me in a mechanical way so that having
taken one-tenth there are nine-tenths left. My nature
is not divisible into so many parts as a house into so many
rooms. My group uses me and then the whole of me is
still left to give to the whole. This is the constant social
process. Thus my citizenship is something bigger than
my membership in a vocational group. Vocational
representation does not deal with men—it deals with
masons and doctors. I may be a photographer but how
little of my personality does my photography absorb.
We are concerned with what is left over—is that going
to be lost? The whole of every man must go into his
citizenship.</p>

<p class="c013">Some at the guild socialists tell us, however, that a
man has as many “rights” as he has functions: a shoe-maker
is also a father and a rate-payer. But they do
not give us any plan for the political recognition of these
various functions. How the father <em>as</em> father is to be
represented in the state we are not told. The state will
never get the whole of a man by his trying to divide himself
into parts. A man is not a father at home, a citizen
at the polls, an artisan at work, a business man in his office,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_292">292</span>a follower of Christ at church. He is at every moment a
Christian, a father, a citizen, a worker, if he is at any
time these in a true sense. We want the whole man in
politics. Clever business men are not engaging workers,
they need men, our churches need men, the insistent
demand of our political life is for men.</p>

<p class="c013">As ideally every function should include every other,
as every power of which I am capable should go into my
work, occupational representation might do for the
millennium, but it is not fitted for the limitations of man
in 1918.</p>

<p class="c013">I am advocating throughout the group principle, but
not the group as the political unit. We do not need to
swing forever between the individual and the group.
We must devise some method of using both at the same
time. Our present method is right so far as it is based on
individuals, but we have not yet found the true individual.
The groups are the indispensable means for the
discovery of self by each man. The individual finds himself
in a group; he has no power alone or in a crowd.
One group creates me, another group creates me and so
on and on. The different groups bring into appearance
the multiple sides of me. I go to the polls to express the
multiple man which the groups have created. I am to
express the whole from my individual point of view, and
that is a multiple point of view because of my various
groups. But my relation to the state is always as an
individual. The group is a method merely. It cannot
supplant either the individual on the one hand or the
state on the other. The unit of society is the individual
coming into being and functioning through groups of a
more and more federated nature. Thus the unit of society
is neither the group nor the particularist-individual,
but the group-individual.</p>

<p class="c013">The question is put baldly to us by the advocates of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_293">293</span>vocational representation—“Do you want representation
of numbers or representation of interests?” They
are opposed to the former, which they call democracy,
because “democracy” means to them the “sovereignty
of the people,” which means the reign of the crowd.
Democracy and functionalism are supposed to be opposed.
An industry is to be composed not of individuals but
of departments; likewise the state is to be a union of
industries or occupations. The present state is conceived
as a crowd-state.<a id="r120"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f120"><sup>[120]</sup></a> If the state is and must necessarily
be a crowd, no wonder it is being condemned to-day
in many quarters. But I do not believe this is the alternative
we are facing—the crowd-state or the group-state.
We want the representation of individuals, but
of true individuals, group-individuals.<a id="r121"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f121"><sup>[121]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The best part of pluralism is that it is a protest against
the domination of numbers; the trouble is that it identifies
numbers with individuals. Some plan must be devised
by which we put the individual at the centre of our
political system, without an atomistic sovereignty, and
yet by which we can get the whole of the individual. I
am proposing for the moment the individual the unit,
the group the method, but this alone does not cover all
that is necessary. In the French syndicalist organization
every syndicate, whatever its size, is represented
by a single individual. In this way power is prevented
from falling into the hands of a strong federation like
the miners, but of course this often means minority rule.
In England the Trade Union Congress can be dominated
by the five large trades, a state of things which has been
much complained of there. But we must remember
<span class="pageno" id="Page_294">294</span>that while the syndicalists get rid of majority rule, that
is, that the majority of individuals no longer govern,
they merely give the rule to the majority of groups.
They have not given up the <em>principle</em> of majority rule,
they simply apply it differently. There is a good deal
of syndicalist thinking that is not a penetrating analysis
which presents us with new principles, but a mere
taking of ideas long accepted in regard to the individual
and transferring them to the field of the group. I have
tried to show in <a href="#ch_17" class="pginternal">chapter XVII</a>, “Democracy Not the Majority,”
that the pressing matter in politics is not whether
we want majority rule or not, but to decide upon those
methods of association by which we get the greatest
amount of integration. The syndicalists are right, we
do not want a crowd, but I do not think most syndicalists
have discovered the true use of the true group.</p>

<p class="c013">The task before us now is to think out the way in which
the group method can be a regular part of our political
system—its relation to the individual on the one hand
and to the state on the other. No man should have a
share in government as an isolated individual, but only
as bound up with others: the individual must be the
unit, but an individual capable of entering into genuine
group relations and of using these for an expanding scale
of social, political and international life.</p>

<p class="c013">The best part of functionalism is that it presents to
us the Service State in the place of the old Sovereign
State. This has two meanings: (1) that the state is
created by the actual services of every man, that every
man will get his place in the state through the service
rendered: (2) that the state itself is tested by the services
it renders, both to its members and to the world-community.<a id="r122"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f122"><sup>[122]</sup></a>
The weakness of functionalism, as so far
<span class="pageno" id="Page_295">295</span>developed, is that it has provided no method for all
the functions of man to be included in the state. The
essence of democracy is the expression of every man in
his multiple nature.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: no one group can enfold me, because of
my multiple nature. This is the blow to the theory
of occupational representation. But also no number of
groups can enfold me. This is the reason why the individual
must always be the unit of politics, as group
organization must be its method. We <em>find</em> the individual
through the group, we <em>use</em> him always as the true individual—the
undivided one—who, living link of living
group, is yet never embedded in the meshes but is
forever free for every new possibility of a forever unfolding
life.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_296">296</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_31">XXXI<br/> <br/>POLITICAL PLURALISM AND THE TRUE FEDERAL STATE</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">IN the last two chapters I have taken up the two
fundamental laws of life—the law of interpenetration
and the law of multiples. (1) Sovereignty, we
have seen, is the power generated within the group—dependent
on the principle of interpenetration. (2) Man
joins many groups—in order to express his multiple
nature. These two principles give us federalism.</p>

<p class="c013">Let us, before considering the conception of federalism
in detail, sum up in a few sentences what has already been
said of these two principles. The fundamental truth of
life we have seen is self-perpetuating activity—activity
so regnant, so omnipresent, so all-embracing, that it
banishes even the conception of anything static from
the world of being. Conscious evolution means that we
must discover the essential principle of this activity and
see that it is at work in the humblest of its modes, the
smallest group or meeting of even two or three. The
new psychology has brought to political science the
recognition of interpenetration and the “compounding
of consciousness” as the very condition of all life. Our
political methods must conform to life’s methods. We
must understand and follow the laws of association that
the state may appear, that our own little purposes may
be fulfilled. <em>Little</em> purposes? Is there any great and
small? The humblest man and the price of his daily
loaf—is this a small matter—it hangs upon the whole
world situation to-day. In order that the needs of the
humblest shall be satisfied, or in order that world purposes
<span class="pageno" id="Page_297">297</span>shall be fulfilled—it matters not which—this
principle of “compounding” must be fully recognized
and embodied in our political methods. It is this vital
intermingling which creates the real individual and knits
men into the myriad relations of life. We win through
life our individuality, it is not presented to us at the
beginning to be exploited as we will. We win a multiple
individuality through our manifold relations. In
the workings of this dual law are rooted all of social and
political progress, all the hope and the potency of human
evolution.</p>

<p class="c013">Only the federal state can express this dual principle
of existence—the compounding and the multiple compounding.
It is an incomplete understanding of this
dual law which is responsible for the mistaken interpretation
of federalism held by some of the pluralists: a
conception which includes the false doctrines of division
of power, the idea that the group not the individual
should be the unit of the state, the old consent of governed
theory, an almost discarded particularism (group
rights), and the worn-out balance theory.</p>

<p class="c013">The distributive sovereignty school assumes that the
essential, the basic part of federalism is the division of
power between the central and separate parts: while
the parts may be considered as ceding power to the central
state, or the central state may be considered as
granting power to the parts, yet in one form or another
federalism means a divided sovereignty. Esmein says
definitely, “<i lang="fr">L’État fédératif ... fractionne la souveraineté....</i>”<a id="r123"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f123"><sup>[123]</sup></a>
No, it should unite sovereignty. There should
be no absolute division of power or conferring of power.
The activity of whole and parts should be one.</p>

<p class="c013">In spite of all our American doctrines of the end of the
eighteenth century, in spite of our whole history of states-right
<span class="pageno" id="Page_298">298</span>theory and sentiment, the division of sovereignty
is not the main fact of the United States government.
From 1789 to 1861 the idea of a divided sovereignty—that
the United States was a voluntary agreement between
free, sovereign and independent states, that authority
was “divided” between nation and states—dictated
the history of the United States. The war of 1861
was fought (some of the pluralists seem not to know)
to settle this question.<a id="r124"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f124"><sup>[124]</sup></a> The two ideas of federalism
came to a death grapple in our Civil War and the
true doctrine triumphed. That war decided that the
United States was not a delegated affair, that it had a
“real” existence, and that it was sovereign, yet not
sovereign over the states as an external party, for it is
composed of the states, but sovereign over itself, merely
over itself. You have not to be a mystic to understand
this but only an American. Those who see in a federal
union a mere league with rights and powers granted to
a central government, those who see in a federal union
a balancing of sovereign powers, do not understand
true federalism. When we enumerate the powers of
the states as distinct from the powers of our national
government, some people regard this distinction as a
dividing line between nation and states, but the true “federalist”
is always seeing the relation of these powers to
those of the central government. There are no absolute
divisions in a true federal union.</p>

<p class="c013">Do we then want a central government which shall
override the parts until they become practically non-existent?
<span class="pageno" id="Page_299">299</span>The moment federalism attempts to transcend
the parts it has become vitiated. Our Civil War
was not, as some writers assert, the blow to states-rights
and the victory of centralization. We shall yet,
I believe, show that it was a victory for true federalism.<a id="r125"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f125"><sup>[125]</sup></a>
The United States is neither to ignore the states, transcend
the states, nor to balance the states, it is to <em>be</em> the
states in their united capacity.</p>

<p class="c013">Of course it is true that many Americans do think of
our government as a division of powers between central
and local authority, therefore there is as a matter of
fact much balancing of interests. But as far as we are
doing this at Washington it is exactly what we must get
rid of. The first lesson for every member of a federal
government to learn is that the interests of the different
parts, or the interests of the whole and the interests of
the parts, are never to be pitted against each other. As
far as the United States represents an interpenetration
of thought and feeling and interest and will, it is carrying
out the aims of federalism.</p>

<p class="c013">We have not indeed a true federalism in the United
States to-day; we are now learning the lesson of federalism.
Some one must analyze for us the difference between
centralization and true federalism, which is neither
nationalization, states-rights, nor balance, and then we
must work for true federalism. For the federal government
to attempt to do that which the states should
do, or perhaps even are doing, means loss of force, and
loss of education-by-experience for the states. On the
other hand, not to see when federal action means at
the same time local development and national strength,
means a serious retarding of our growth. It is equally
true that when the states attempt what the federal government
<span class="pageno" id="Page_300">300</span>alone should undertake, the consequence is general
muddle.</p>

<p class="c013">And it is by no means a question only of what the
federal government should do and what it should not
do. It is a question of the <em>way</em> of doing. It is a question
of guiding, where necessary, without losing local
initiative or local responsibility. It is a question of so
framing measures that true federation, not centralization,
be obtained. Recently, even before the war, the
tendency has been towards increased federal action
and federal control, as seen, for instance, in the control
of railroad transportation, of vocational education etc.
The latter is an excellent example of the possibility
of central action being true federal and not nationalized
action. The federal government upon application from
a state grants to that state an amount for vocational
education equal to what the state itself will appropriate.
The administration of the fund rests with the state.
The federal government thus makes no assumptions.
It <em>recognizes existing facts</em>. And it does not impose
something from without. The state must understand
its needs, must know how those needs can best be satisfied;
it must take responsibility. The experience of
one state joins with the experience of other states to form
a collective experience.</p>

<p class="c013">As we watch federalism being worked out in actual
practice at Washington, we see in that practice the
necessity of a distinction which has been emphasized
throughout this book as the contribution of contemporary
psychology to politics: nationalization is the Hegelian
reconciliation, true federalism is the integration of
present psychology. This means a genuine integration
of the interests of all the parts. If our present tendency
is towards nationalization, we must learn the difference
between that and federalism and change it into the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_301">301</span>latter. We need a new order of statesmen in the world
to-day—for our nation, for our international league—those
who understand federalism.</p>

<p class="c013">But I have been talking of federalism as the integration
of parts (the states). We should remember also,
and this is of the greatest importance, that the United
States is not only to be the <em>states</em> in their united capacity,
but it is to be all the men and women of the United
States in <em>their</em> united capacity. This it seems difficult
for many Europeans to understand; it breaks across
their traditional conception of federalism which has been
a league, a confederation of “sovereign” parts, not a
true federal state. We of Massachusetts feel ourselves not
first children of Massachusetts and then through Massachusetts
of the United States. We belong directly to the
United States not merely through Massachusetts. True
federalism means that the individual, not the group, is
the unit. A true federal government acts directly on
its citizens, not merely through the groups.</p>

<p class="c013">America has not led the world in democracy through
methods of representation, social legislation, ballot laws
or industrial organization. She has been surpassed by
other countries in all of these. She leads the world in
democracy because through federalism she is working
out the secret of the universe actively. Multiple citizenship
in its spontaneous unifying is the foundation of the
new state. Federalism and democracy go together, you
do not decide to have one or the other as your fancy
may be. We did not establish federalism in the United
States, we are growing federalism. Cohesion imposed
upon us externally will lack in significance and duration.
Federalism must live through: (1) the reality of the
group, (2) the expanding group, (3) the ascending group
or unifying process.</p>

<p class="c013">The federal state is the unifying state. The political
<span class="pageno" id="Page_302">302</span>pluralists, following James, use the “trailing and”<a id="r126"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f126"><sup>[126]</sup></a>
argument to prove that we can never have a unified
state, that there is always something which never gets
included. I should use it to prove that we can and must
have a unify<em>ing</em> state, that this “and” is the very unifying
principle. The “trailing and” is the deepest truth
of psychology. It is because of this “and” that our goal
must always be the unified state—the unified state to
be attained through the federal form. Our spirit it is
true is by nature federal, but this means not infinite unrelation
but infinite possibility of relation, not infinite
strung-alongness but infinite seeking for the unifying
of the strung-alongness. I forever discover undeveloped
powers. This is the glory of our exhaustless
nature. We are the expression of the principle of endless
growth, of endless appearing, and democracy must,
therefore, so shape its forms as to allow for the manifestation
of each new appearing. I grow possibilities;
new opportunities should always be arising to meet
these new possibilities.</p>

<p class="c013">Then through group and group and ascending group
I actualize more and more. The “trailing and” is man’s
task for ever and ever—to drag in more spirit, more
knowledge, more harmony. Federalism is the only
possible form for the state because it leaves room for
the new forces which are coming through these spiritual
“ands,” for the myriad centres of life which must be
forever springing up, group after group, within a vital
state. Our impulse is at one and the same time to develop
self and to transcend self. It is this ever transcending
self which needs the federal state. The federal
<span class="pageno" id="Page_303">303</span>state is not a unified state, I agree, but it is a unifying
state, not a “strung-along” state.</p>

<p class="c013">Thus it is the federal state which expresses the two
fundamental principles of life—the compounding of
consciousness and the endless appearings of new forces.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that the pluralists’ mistaken interpretation
of federalism includes the particularist notions of
“consent” and “rights” and “balance,” and that all
these come from a false conception of sovereignty. What
does the new psychology teach us of “consent”? Power
is generated within the true group not by one or several
assuming authority and the others “consenting,” but
solely by the process of intermingling. Only by the
same method can the true state be grown.</p>

<p class="c013">If divorce is to be allowed between the state and this
group or that, what are the grounds on which it is to
be granted? Will incompatibility be sufficient? Are
the manufacturing north and agricultural south of Ireland
incompatible? Does a certain trade association
want, like Nora, a “larger life”? The pluralists open
the gates to too much. They wish to throw open the
doors of the state to labor: yes, they are right, but let
them beware what veiled shapes may slip between those
open portals. Labor must indeed be included in the
state, it is our most immediate task, but let us ponder
well the method.</p>

<p class="c013">The pluralists assume that the unified state must
always claim authority over “other groups.”<a id="r127"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f127"><sup>[127]</sup></a> But as
he who expresses the unity of my group has no authority
over me but is simply the symbol and the organ of the
group, so that group which expresses the unity of all
groups—that is, the state—should have no authority
<em>as a separate group</em>, but only so far as it gathers up into
<span class="pageno" id="Page_304">304</span>itself the whole meaning of these constituent groups.
Just here is the crux of the disagreement between the
upholders of the pluralistic and of the true monistic
state: the former think of the other groups as “coextensive”
or “complementary” to the state—the state
is one of the groups to which we owe obedience; to the
latter they and all individuals are the constituents of the
state.<a id="r128"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f128"><sup>[128]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">I have said that our progress is from Contract to
Community.<a id="r129"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f129"><sup>[129]</sup></a> This those pluralists cannot accept who
take the consent of the group as part of their theory of
the state. They thereby keep themselves in the contract
stage of thinking, they thereby and in so far range
themselves with all particularists.<a id="r130"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f130"><sup>[130]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, in the divided sovereignty theory the old
particularist doctrine of individual rights gives way
merely to a new doctrine of group rights, the “inherent
rights” of trade-unions or ecclesiastical bodies. “Natural
rights” and “social compact” went together; the
“inherent rights” of groups again tend to make the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_305">305</span>federal bond a compact.<a id="r131"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f131"><sup>[131]</sup></a> The state resting on a numerical
basis, composed of an aggregate of individuals, gives
way only to a state still resting on a numerical basis
although composed now of groups instead of individuals.
As in the old days the individuals were to be “free,”
now the groups are to be “independent.” These new
particularists are as zealous and as jealous for the group
as any nineteenth-century “individualist” was for the individual.
Mr. Barker, who warns us, it is true, against
inherent rights which are not adjusted to other inherent
rights, nevertheless says, “If we are individualists now,
we are corporate individualists. Our individuals are becoming
groups. We no longer write Man <i>vs.</i> the State
but The Group <i>vs.</i> the State.” But does Mr. Barker
really think it progress to write Group <i>vs.</i> the State?
If the principle of individual <i>vs.</i> the state is wrong, what
difference does it make whether that individual is one
man or a group of men? In so far as these rights are based
on function, we have an advance in political theory; in
so far as we can talk of group <i>vs.</i> the state, we are held
in the thralls of another form of social atomism. It is
the pluralists themselves who are always saying, when
they oppose crowd-sovereignty, that atomism means
anarchy. Agreed, but atomism in any form, of groups
as well as individuals, means anarchy, and this they do
not always seem to realize.</p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Barker speaks of the present tendency “to restrict
the activity of the state in order to safeguard the rights
of the groups.” Many pluralists and syndicalists are
afraid of the state because for them the old dualism is
<span class="pageno" id="Page_306">306</span>unsolvable. But as I have tried to show in the chapter
on “Our Political Dualism” that the rights of the state
and the citizen are never, ideally, incompatible, so now
we should understand that our present task is to develop
those political forms within which rights of group and
state can be approaching coincidence.</p>

<p class="c013">As long as we settle down within any one group, we
are in danger of the old particularism. Many a trade-unionist
succumbs to this danger. Love of a group will
not get us out of particularism. We can have egoism
of the group as well as egoism of the individual. Indeed
the group may have all the evils of the individual—aggrandizement
of self, exploitation of others etc. Nothing
will get us out of particularism but the constant
recognition that any whole is always the element of a
larger whole. Group life has two meanings, one as important
as the other: (1) it looks in to its own integrated,
coördinated activity, (2) it sees that activity in relation
to other activities, in relation to a larger whole of which
it is a part. The group which does not look out deteriorates
into caste. The group which thinks only of itself
is a menace to society; the group which looks to its manifold
relations is part of social progress. President Wilson
as head of a national group has just as clear a duty to
other national groups as to his own country.</p>

<p class="c013">Particularism of the individual is dead, in theory if not
in practice. Let us not now fall into the specious error
of clinging to our particularism while changing its name
from individual to group.</p>

<p class="c013">The outcome of group particularism is the balance
of power theory, perhaps the most pernicious part of the
pluralists’ doctrine. The pluralist state is to be composed
of sovereign groups. What is their life to be?
They are to be left alone to fight, to compete, or, word
most favored by this school, to balance. With de Maeztu
<span class="pageno" id="Page_307">307</span>the balance of power is confessedly the corner-stone of
the new state. “The dilemma which would make us
choose between the State and anarchy is false. There
is another alternative, that of plurality and the balance
of powers, not merely within the nation but in the family
of nations.”<a id="r132"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f132"><sup>[132]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But whenever you have balance in your premise, you
have anarchy in your conclusion.</p>

<p class="c013">The weakness of the reasoning involved in the balance
of power argument has been exposed in so much of the
war literature of the last three years, which has exploded
the balance of power theory between nations, that little
further criticism is needed here. Unity must be our aim
to-day. When you have not unity, you have balance
or struggle or domination—of one over others. The
nations of Europe refuse domination, aim at balance, and
war is the result.</p>

<p class="c013">It seems curious that these two movements should be
going on side by side: that we are giving up the idea of
the balance of nations, that we are refusing to think
any longer in terms of “sovereign” nations, and yet at
the same time an increasing number of men should be
advocating balancing, “sovereign” groups within nations.
The pluralists object to unity, but unity and plurality
are surely not incompatible. The true monistic state is
merely the multiple state working out its own unity
from infinite diversity. But the unifying state shows
us what to do with that diversity. What advantage is
that diversity if it is to be always “competing,” “fighting,”
“balancing?” Only in the unifying state do we
get the full advantage of diversity where it is gathered
up into significance and pointed action.</p>

<p class="c013">The practical outcome of the balance theory will be
<span class="pageno" id="Page_308">308</span>first antagonistic interests, then jealous interests, then
competing interests, then dominating interests—a fatal
climax.</p>

<p class="c013">The trouble with the balance theory is that by the
time the representatives of the balancing groups meet,
it is too late to expect agreement. The chief objection
to pluralism is, perhaps, that it is usually merely a
scheme of representation, that its advocates are usually
talking of the kind of roof they want before they have
laid the foundation stones. No theory of the state can
have vitality which is merely a plan of representation.
The new state must rest on a new conception of living,
on a true understanding of the vital modes of association.
The reason why occupational representation must bring
balance and competition is because the integrating of
differences, the essential social process, does not take
place far enough back in our life. If Parliaments are
composed of various groups or interests, the unification
of those interests has to take place in Parliament. But
then it is too late. The ideas of the different groups must
mingle earlier than Parliament. We must go further
back than our legislatures for the necessary unifying.
We do not want legislatures full of opposing interests.
The ideas of the groups become too crystallized by the
time their representatives get to the Parliament, in fact
they have often hardened into prejudices. Moreover, the
representatives could not go against their constituencies,
they would be pledged to specific measures. The different
groups would come together each to try to prevail,
not to go through the only genuine democratic process,
that of trying to integrate their ideas and interests.</p>

<p class="c013">When the desire to prevail is once keenly upon us, we
behave very differently than when our object is the seeking
of truth. Suppose I am the representative in Congress
of a group or a party. A bill is under consideration.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_309">309</span>I see a weakness in that bill; if I point it out some one
else may see a remedy for it and the bill may be immensely
improved. But do I do this? Certainly not.
I am so afraid of the bill being lost if I show any
weakness in it that I keep this insight to myself and my
country loses just so much. I cannot believe that occupational
representation will foster truth seeking or truth
speaking. It seems to me quite a case of the frying pan
into the fire. Compromise and swapping will be the
order in Parliaments based solely on the vocational
principle. The different interests must fight it out in
Parliament. This is fundamentally against democracy
because it is against the psychological foundation of
democracy, the fundamental law of association. Democracy
depends on the blending, not the balancing, of
interests and thoughts and wills. Occupational representation
assumes that you secure the interests of the
whole by securing the interests of every class, the old
particularist fallacy transferred to the group.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, it is often assumed that because the occupational
group is composed of men of similar interests
we shall have agreement in the occupational group; it
is taken for granted that in these economic groups the
agreement of opinion necessary for voting will be automatic.
But do poets or carpenters or photographers
think alike on more than a very few questions? What
we must do is to get behind these electoral methods to
some fundamental method which shall <em>produce</em> agreement.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, if the Cabinet were made up of these warring
elements, administration would be almost impossible.
Lloyd-George’s Cabinet at present is hampered by
too much “difference.” I have throughout, to be sure,
been advocating the compounding of difference as the
secret of politics, but the compounding must begin further
back in our life than Parliaments or Cabinets.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_310">310</span>And if you had group representation in England would
not the Cabinet be made up of the most powerful of the
groups, and would not a fear of defeat at any particular
time mean overtures to enough of the other groups to
make success in the Cabinet? And would not an entirely
improper amount of power drift to the Premier under
these circumstances? Have we any leaders who would,
could any one trust himself to, guide the British Cabinet
for the best interests of Great Britain under such conditions
as these?</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up: a true federalism cannot rest on balance
or group-rights or consent. Authority, obedience, liberty,
can never be understood without an understanding of the
group process. Some of the advocates of guild socialism
oppose function to authority and liberty, but we can
have function <em>and</em> liberty <em>and</em> authority: authority of
the whole through the liberty of all by means of the
functions of each. These three are inescapably united.
A genuine group, a small or large group, association or
state, has the right to the obedience of its members.
No group should be sovereign over another group. The
only right the state has to authority over “other” groups
is as far as those groups are constituent parts of the
state. All groups are not constituent parts of the state
to-day, as the pluralists clearly see. Possibly or probably
all groups never will be, but such perpetually self-actualizing
unity should be the process. Groups are
sovereign over themselves, but in their relation to the
state they are interdependent groups, each recognizing
the claims of every other. Our multiple group life is
the fact we have to reckon with; unity is the aim of all
our seeking. And with this unity will appear a sovereignty
spontaneously and joyfully acknowledged. In
true federalism, voided of division and balance, lies such
sovereignty.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_311">311</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_32">XXXII<br/> <br/>POLITICAL PLURALISM (CONCLUDED)</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_0_0_5 c012">I HAVE spoken of the endeavor of the pluralist
school to look at things as they are as one of its
excellencies. But a progressive political science
must also decide what it is aiming at. It is no logical
argument against a sovereign state to say that we
have not one at present, or that our present particularistic
states are not successful. Proof of actual plural
sovereignty does not constitute an argument against the
ideal of unified or rather a unifying sovereignty. The
question is do we want a unifying state? And if so,
how can we set about getting it?</p>

<p class="c013">The old theory of the monistic state indeed tended
to make the state absolute. The pluralists are justified
in their fear of a unified state when they conceive
it as a monster which has swallowed up everything
within sight. It reminds one of the nursery rhyme of
one’s childhood:</p>

<div class="lg-container-b c021">
  <div class="linegroup">
    <div class="group">
      <div class="line">Algy met a bear</div>
      <div class="line">The bear was bulgy</div>
      <div class="line">The bulge was Algy.</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<p class="c019">The pluralists say that the monistic state <em>absorbs</em> its
members. (This is a word used by many writers).<a id="r133"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f133"><sup>[133]</sup></a> But
the ideal unified state is not all-absorptive; it is all-inclusive—a
very different matter: we are not, individual
or group, to be absorbed into a whole, we are to
be <a id="tn311"/>constituent members of the whole. I am speaking
throughout of the ideal unified state, which I call a unify<em>ing</em>
state.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_312">312</span>The failure to understand a unifying state is responsible
for the dread on the one hand of a state which will
“demand” our allegiance, and on the other of our being
left to the clash of “divided” allegiances. Both these
bugbears will disappear only through an understanding
of how each allegiance can minister to every other, and
also through a realization that no single group can embrace
my life. It is true that the state as state no more
than family or trade-union or church can “capture my
soul.” But this does not mean that I must divide my
allegiance; I must find how I can by being loyal to each
be loyal to all, to the whole. I am an American with
all my heart and soul and at the same time I can work
daily for Boston and Massachusetts. I can work for
my nation through local machinery of city or neighborhood.
My work at office or factory enriches my family
life; my duty to my family is my most pressing incentive
to do my best work. There is no competing here,
but an infinite number of filaments cross and recross
and connect all my various allegiances. We should not
be obliged to choose between our different groups. Competition
is not the soul of true federalism but the interlocking
of all interests and all activities.</p>

<p class="c013">The true state must gather up every interest within
itself. It must take our many loyalties and find how it
can make them one. I have all these different allegiances,
I should indeed lead a divided and therefore uninteresting
life if I could not unify them, Life <em>would</em> be “just
one damned thing after another.” The true state has
my devotion because it gathers up into itself the various
sides of me, is the symbol of my multiple self, is my
multiple self brought to significance, to self-realization.
If you leave me with my plural selves, you leave me in
desolate places, my soul craving its meaning, its home.
The home of my soul is in the state.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_313">313</span>But the true state does not “demand” my allegiance.
It is the spontaneously uniting, the instinctive self-unifying
of our multiple interests. And as it does not
“demand” allegiance, so also it does not “compete”
with trade-unions etc., as the present state often does,
for my allegiance. We have been recently told that the
tendency of the state is to be intolerant of “any competing
interest or faith or hope,” but if it is, the cure is not
to make it tolerant, but to make it recognize that the
very substance of its life is all these interests and faiths
and hopes. Every group which we join must increase
our loyalty to the state because the state must recognize
fully every legitimate interest. Our political machinery
must not be such that I get what I need by pitting the
group which most clearly embodies my need against the
state; it must be such that my loyalty to my trade-union
is truly part of my loyalty to the state.</p>

<p class="c013">When I find that my loyalty to my group and my
loyalty to the state conflict (if I am a Quaker and my
country is at war, or if I am a trade-unionist and the commands
of nation and trade-union clash at the time of a
strike), I must usually, as a matter of immediate action,
decide between these loyalties. But my duty to either
group or state is not thereby exhausted: I must, if my
disapproval of war is to be neither abandoned nor remain
a mere particularist conviction, seek to change the
policy of my state in regard to its foreign relations; I
must, knowing that there can be no sound national life
where trade-unions are pitted against the state, seek
to bring about those changes in our industrial and
political organization by which the interests of my trade-union
can become a constituent part of the interests of
the state.</p>

<p class="c013">I feel capable of more than a multiple allegiance, I
feel capable of a unified allegiance. A unified allegiance
<span class="pageno" id="Page_314">314</span>the new state will claim, but that is something very different
from an “undivided” allegiance. It is, to use
James’ phrase again, a compounding of allegiances.
“Multiple allegiance” leaves us with the abnormal idea
of competing groups. “Supplementary allegiance” gives
us too fragmentary an existence. “Coöperative allegiance”
comes nearer the truth. Can we not perhaps
imagine a coöperative or unified allegiance, all these
various and varying allegiances actually living in and
through the other?</p>

<p class="c013">We need not fear the state if we could understand it
as the unifying power: it is the state-principle when
two or three are gathered together, when any differences
are harmonized. Our problem is how all the separate
community sense and community loyalty and community
responsibility can be gathered up into larger community
sense and loyalty and control.</p>

<p class="c013">One thing more it is necessary to bear in mind in
considering the unified state, and that is that a unifying
state is not a static state. We, organized as the
state, may issue certain commands to ourselves to-day,
but organized as a plastic state, those commands may
change to-morrow with our changing needs and changing
ideals, and they will change through <em>our</em> initiative.
The true state is neither an external force nor an unchanging
force. Rooted in our most intimate daily lives,
in those bonds which are at the same time the strongest
and the most pliant, the “absolutism” of the true state
depends always upon <em>our</em> activity. The objectors to
the unified state seem to imply that it is necessarily a
ready-made state, with hard and fast articulations, existing
apart from us, imposing its commands upon us
which we must obey; but the truth is that the state
must be in perfect flux and that it is utterly dependent
upon us for its appearance. In so far as we actualize
<span class="pageno" id="Page_315">315</span>it, it appears to us; we recognize that it is wrong, then
we see it in a higher form and actualize that. The true
state is not an arbitrary creation. It is a process: a continual
self-modification to express its different stages of
growth which each and all must be so flexible that continual
change of form is twin-fellow of continual growth.</p>

<p class="c013">But every objection that can be raised against the
pluralists does not I believe take from them the right to
leadership in political thought.</p>

<p class="c013">First, they prick the bubble of the present state’s
right to supremacy. They see that the state which has
been slowly forming since the Middle Ages with its pretences
and unfulfilled claims has not won either our regard
or respect. Why then, they ask, should we render
this state obedience? “[The state must] prove itself by
what it achieves.” With the latter we are all beginning
to agree.</p>

<p class="c013">Genuine power, in the sense not of power actually
possessed, but in the sense of a properly evolved power, is,
we have seen, an actual psychological process. Invaluable,
therefore, is the implicit warning of the pluralists
that to attain this power is an infinite task. Sovereignty
is always a-growing; our political forms must
keep closely in touch with the specific stage of that
growth. In rendering the state obedience, we assume
that the state has genuine power (because the consequences
of an opposite assumption would be too disastrous)
while we are trying to approximate it. The
great lesson of Mr. Laski’s book is in its implication that
we do not have a sovereign state until we make one.
Political theory will not <em>create</em> sovereignty, acts of Parliament
cannot <em>confer</em> sovereignty, only living the life
will turn us, subjects indeed at present, into kings of our
own destiny.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, recently some of the pluralists are beginning
<span class="pageno" id="Page_316">316</span>to use the phrase coöperative sovereignty<a id="r134"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f134"><sup>[134]</sup></a> which seems
happily to be taking them away from their earlier “strung-along”
sovereignty. If they press along this path, we
shall all be eager to follow.</p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, they recognize the value of the group and
they see that the variety of our group life to-day has a
significance which must be immediately reckoned with
in political method. Moreover they repudiate the idea
that the groups are given authority by the state. An
able political writer recently said, “All other societies
rest on the authority given by the state. The state
itself stands self-sufficient, self-directing....” It is
this school of thought which the pluralists are combating
and thereby rendering invaluable service to political
theory.</p>

<p class="c013">Third, and directly connected with the last point, they
plead for a revivification of local life. It is interesting
to note that the necessity of this is recognized both by
those who think the state has failed and by those who
wish to increase the power of the state. To the former,
the group is to be the substitute for the repudiated state.
As for the latter, the Fabians have long felt that local
units should be vitalized and educated and interested, for
they thought that socialism would begin with the city and
other local units. Neighborhood education and neighborhood
organization is then the pressing problem of
1918. All those who are looking towards a real democracy,
not the pretence of one which we have now, feel
that the most imminent of our needs is the awakening
and invigorating, the educating and organizing of the
local unit. All those who in the humblest way, in settlement
or community centre, are working for this, are
working at the greatest political problem of the twentieth
century.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_317">317</span>In the fourth place the pluralists see that the interest
of the state is not now always identical with the interests
of its parts. It is to the interest of England to win this
war, they say, but England has yet to prove that it is
also for the interest of her working people.</p>

<p class="c013">In the fifth place, we may hail the group school as the
beginning of the disappearance of the crowd. Many
people advocate vocational representation because they
see in it a method of getting away from our present
crowd rule, what they call numerical representation.
They see our present voters hypnotized by their leaders
and manipulated by “interests,” and propose the occupational
group as a substitute for the crowd. New political
experiments must indeed be along this line. We
must guard only (1) that the “group” itself shall not
be a crowd, (2) that the union of groups shall not be a
numerical union.</p>

<p class="c013">Finally, this new school contains the prophecy of the
future because it has with keenest insight seized upon
the problem of identity, of association, of federalism,<a id="r135"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f135"><sup>[135]</sup></a>
as the central problem of politics as it is the central
problem of life. The force of the pluralist school is
that it is not academic; it is considering a question
which every thoughtful person is asking himself. We
are faced to-day with a variety of group interests, with
many objects demanding our enthusiasm and devotion;
our duty itself shines, not a single light showing a single
path, but shedding a larger radiance on a life which is
most gloriously not a path at all. Shall Boston or Washington
hold me, my family, my church, my union? With
the complexity of interests increasing every day on the
outside, inside with the power of the soul to “belong”
<span class="pageno" id="Page_318">318</span>expanding every day (the English and the French flags
stir us hardly less than the American now), with the
psychologists talking of pluralism and the political scientists
of multiple sovereignty, with all this yet the soul
of man seeks unity in obedience to his essential nature.
How is this to be obtained? Social evolution is in the
hands of those who can solve this problem.</p>

<p class="c013">What is the law of politics that corresponds in importance
to the law of gravitation in the physical world?
It is the law of interpenetration and of multiples. I am
the multiple man and the multiple man is the germ of
the unified state. If I live fully I become so enriched
by the manifold sides of life that I cannot be narrowed
down to mere corporation or church or trade-union or
any other special group. The miracle of spirit is that
it can give itself utterly to all these things and yet remain
unimpaired, unexhausted, undivided. I am not a serial
story to be read only in the different instalments of my
different groups. We do not give a part to one group
and a part to another, but we give our whole to each
and the whole remains for every other relation. Life
escapes its classifications and this is what some of the
writers on group organization do not seem to understand.
This secret of the spirit is the power of the federal
principle. True federation multiplies each individual.
We have thought that federal government consisted of
mechanical, artificial, external forms, but really it is the
spirit which liveth and giveth life.</p>

<p class="c013">Let the pluralists accept this principle and they will
no longer tell us that they are torn by a divided allegiance.
Let them carry their pragmatism a step further
and they will see that it is only by actual living that we
can understand an undivided allegiance. James tells
us that “Reality falls in passing into conceptual analysis;
it mounts in living its own undivided life—it buds and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_319">319</span>bourgeons, changes and creates.” This is the way we
must understand an undivided allegiance. I live forever
the undivided life. As an individual I am the
undivided one, as the group-I, I am again the undivided
one, as the state-I, I am the undivided one—I am
always and forever the undivided one, mounting from
height to height, always mounting, always the whole
of me mounting.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_320">320</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_33">XXXIII<br/> <br/>INCREASING RECOGNITION OF THE OCCUPATIONAL GROUP</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">FROM the confessedly embryonic stage of thinking
in which the movement for group organization
still is, two principal questions have emerged:
(1) shall the groups form a pluralistic or a unifying state,
(2) shall the economic group be the sole basis of representation?
The first question I have tried to answer,
the second offers greater difficulties with our present
amount of experience. Men often discuss the occupational
vs. the neighborhood group on the pivotal question—which
of these is nearest a man? Benoist’s plea
for the occupational group was that politics must represent
<i lang="fr">la vie</i>. But, agreed as to that, we still question
whether the occupational group is the most complete
embodiment of <i lang="fr">la vie</i>.</p>

<p class="c013">It is not, however, necessary to balance the advantages
of neighborhood and occupational group, for I am
not proposing that the neighborhood group take the
place of the occupational. We may perhaps come to
wish for an integration of neighborhood and industrial
groups—and other groups too as their importance and
usefulness demand—as their “objective” value appears.
In our neighborhood group we shall find that we can
correct many partial points of view which we get from
our more specialized groups. A director of a corporation
will be more valuable to his state and even to his corporation
if he is at the same time the member of a neighborhood
group. It may be that we shall work out some
<span class="pageno" id="Page_321">321</span>machinery by which the neighborhood group can include
the occupational group. All our functions must be
expressed, but somewhere must come that coördination
which will give them their real effectiveness. We are
not yet ready to say what the machinery will be, only
to recognize some of the principles which should guide
us in constructing that machinery. The power of an
individual is his power to live a vital group life. The
more your society is diversified in group life, the higher
the stage of civilization. Perhaps the destiny of the
neighborhood group is to interpret and correlate, to
give full significance and value to, all the spontaneous
association which our increasingly fuller and more varied
life is constantly creating. It may be that the neighborhood
group is not so much to <em>include</em> the others as to
make each see its relation through every other to every
other.<a id="r136"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f136"><sup>[136]</sup></a> The possible solution, mentioned above, of the
two houses of our legislatures and parliaments dividing
neighborhood and occupational representation, seems a
little crude now to our further analysis unless some
practical integration is being worked out at the same
time in the local unit. But all this must be a matter of
experiment and experience, of patient trial and open-minded
observation.<a id="r137"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f137"><sup>[137]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">The salient fact, however, is that neighborhood and
occupational groups, either independently or one through
the other, must both find representation in the state.
But we must remember that it is industry which must be
included in the state, not labor, but labor and capital.
This war certainly shows us the importance of the great
<span class="pageno" id="Page_322">322</span>organizations of industry. Let them be integrated openly
with the state on the side of their public service, rather
than allow a back-stairs connection on the side of their
“interests.” And let them be integrated in such manner
that labor itself is at last included in our political organization.
This will not be easy; as a matter of fact we
have no more difficult, as we have no more important,
problem before us than the relation within the state of
one powerful organized body to another and of these
bodies to the state. The average American is against the
growth of corporate bodies. But this prejudice must
go: we need strong corporate bodies not to compete
with the state but to minister to the state. Individualism
and concentrated authority have been struggling
for supremacy with us since the beginning of our
government. From the beginning of our government we
have been seeking the synthesis of the two. That synthesis
is to be found in the recognition of organized
groups, but not, I believe, by taking away power from
the state and giving to the group. Some of the pluralists,
in their reaction to the present fear of powerful groups,
advocate that groups should be given more and more
power. I agree with them so far, but their implication
is that we shall thereby have shorn the Samson locks of
the state. This I do not believe we want to do.</p>

<p class="c013">Every one sees the necessity to-day of the increase of
state control as a war measure, but some tell us that we
should guard against its dangers by giving to certain
organizations within the state enough power to “balance”
the state. I insist that balance can never be the
aim of sound political method. We must first change
our conception of the state—substitute the Service
State for the Sovereign State—then methods must be
devised within which such new conception can operate.
We should, indeed, give more and more power to the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_323">323</span>groups, or rather, because we can never “give” power,
we should recognize all the power which springs up
spontaneously within the state, and seek merely those
methods by which that self-generating power shall tend
immediately to become part of the strength of the state.</p>

<p class="c013">How absurd our logic has been. We knew that it took
strong men to make a strong state; we did not realize
that those groups which represent the whole industry
and business of the country need not be rivals of the
state, but must be made to contribute to the state, must
be the means by which the state becomes great and
powerful at the same time that it uses that power for the
well-being and growth of all. Our timidity has been but
the reflection of our ignorance. A larger understanding
is what we need to-day. There is no need to condemn
the state, as do the pluralists; there is no need to condemn
our great corporate bodies, as do their opponents.
But full of distrust we shall surely be, on one side or
the other, until we come truly to understand a state
and to create a state which ministers continuously to
its parts, while its parts from hour to hour serve only the
enhancement of its life, and through it, the enhancement
of the life of its humblest member.</p>

<p class="c013">The tendency to which we have long been subject, to
do away with everything which stood between man and
the state, must go, but that does not mean that we must
fly to the other extreme and do away with either the
individual or the state. One of the chief weaknesses of
political pluralism is that it has so many of the earmarks
of a reaction—the truth is that we have groups <em>and</em>
man <em>and</em> the state, all to deal with.</p>

<p class="c013">Neighborhood groups, economic groups, unifying groups,
these have been my themes, and yet the point which
I wish to emphasize is not the kind of group, but that
the group whatever its nature shall be a genuine group,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_324">324</span>that we can have no genuine state at all which does
not rest on genuine groups. Few trade-unionists in demanding
that their organization shall be the basis of
the new state examine that organization to see what
right it has to make this demand. Most trade-unionists
are satisfied in their own organizations with a centralized
government or an outworn representative system.
Labor can never have its full share in the control of
industry until it has learnt the secrets of the group
process. Collective bargaining must first be the result
of a genuine collective will before it can successfully pass
on to directorate representation, to complete joint
control.<a id="r138"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f138"><sup>[138]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">It is significant that the guild socialists, in considering
how acrimonious disputes between guilds are to be
avoided, say that “the labor and brains of each Guild
naturally [will evolve] a hierarchy to which large issues
of industrial policy might with confidence be referred,”
and “at the back of this hierarchy and finally dominating
it, is the Guild democracy....” But then guild
socialism is to have no different psychological basis
from our present system. This is exactly what we rely
on now so patiently, so unsuccessfully—the lead of the
few, the following of the crowd, with the fiction that,
as our government is based on numbers, the crowd can
always have what it wants; therefore, at any moment
what we have is what we have chosen—Tammany
<span class="pageno" id="Page_325">325</span>rule for instance. We need a new method: the group
process must be applied to industrial groups as well as
to neighborhood groups, to business groups, to professional
societies—to every form of human association.
If the labor question is to be solved by a system of
economic control based on economic representation instead
of upon vital modes of association, “industrial
democracy” will fail exactly as so-called political democracy
has failed.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps this warning is particularly necessary at the
present moment because “group” control of industry
seems imminent. Through the pressure of the war
guild socialism has made practical as well as theoretical
headway in England. There are two movements going
on side by side, both due it is true to the emergency of
war, but neither of which will be wholly lost when the
war is over; it is the opinion of many, on the contrary,
that these movements are destined to shape a new state
for England. First, the government has assumed a certain
amount of control over munition plants, railroads,
mines, breweries, flour mills and factories of various
kinds, and it has undertaken the regulation of wages
and prices, control of markets and food consumption,
taxation of profits etc.<a id="r139"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f139"><sup>[139]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">Secondly, at the same time that the state is assuming
a larger control of industry, it is inviting the workmen
themselves to take part in the control of industry. “The
Whitley Report, adopted by the Reconstruction Committee
of the Cabinet, proposes not only a Joint Standing
Industrial Council for each great national industry,
for the regular consideration of matters affecting the
progress and well-being of the trade, but District Councils
<span class="pageno" id="Page_326">326</span>and Works Committees within each business upon which
capital and labor shall be equally represented.” These
bodies will take up “questions of standard wages, hours,
overtime, apprenticeship, shop discipline, ... technical
training, industrial research and invention, the adoption of
improved machinery and processes, and all those matters
which are included under ‘scientific management.’”<a id="r140"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f140"><sup>[140]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">This is a step which goes far beyond arbitration and
conciliation boards. It gives to labor a positive share
in the control of industry. “Although it is not at present
proposed to give any legal recognition to this new
machinery of economic government or any legal enforcement
of its decision, ... it may reasonably be expected
that [these national industrial councils] will soon become
the effective legislature of the industry.”</p>

<p class="c013">Most noteworthy is the general acceptance of this plan.
“All classes appear to be willing and even anxious to
apply the principle of representative self-government not
only to the conduct of the great trades but to their constituent
businesses.” Undoubtedly the English laborer has
an increasing fear of bureaucracy and this is turning him
from state socialism: his practical experience during the
war of “tyrannical” bureaucracy in the government controlled
industries has lost state socialism many supporters.</p>

<p class="c013">The establishment of the Standing Industrial Councils
is a step towards guild socialism although (1) the determination
of lines of production, the buying and selling
processes, questions of finance, everything in fact outside
shop-management, is at present left to the employers,
and (2) the capitalist is left in possession of his capital.
But this movement taken together with the one mentioned
above, that is, the trend towards state-ownership
or joint ownership or partial control, has large significance:
<span class="pageno" id="Page_327">327</span>the state to own the means of production, the
producers to control the conditions of production, seems
like the next step in industrial development, in government
form,—the fact that these two go together, that
government form is to follow industrial development,
gives us large hope for the future.</p>

<p class="c013">The British Labor Party in 1917 formulated a careful
plan for reorganization with a declared object of
common ownership of means of production and “a
steadily increasing participation of the organized workers
in the management.”<a id="r141"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f141"><sup>[141]</sup></a> This wording is significant.</p>

<p class="c013">In America also the pressure of war has led to the
recognition of labor in the control of industry. Adjustment
boards containing labor representatives have been
required of almost all private employers signing contracts
with the War and Navy Departments.<a id="r142"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f142"><sup>[142]</sup></a> The
policy of the administration is to recognize collective
bargaining. And the President’s Mediation Commission,
which imposed collective agreements on the copper
industry of Arizona, stated in its official report, “The
leaders of industry must ... [enable] labor to take
its place as a coöperator in the industrial enterprise.”
Moreover, the workman is gaining recognition not only
in the management of the industry in which he is engaged,
but also at Washington. On most of the important
government boards which deal with matters affecting
labor, labor is represented. The work of the War Labor
Board and the War Labor Policies Board mark our advance
in the treatment of labor questions.</p>

<p class="c013">The “National Party,” inaugurated in Chicago in
<span class="pageno" id="Page_328">328</span>October, 1917, composed largely of socialists, had for one
plank in its platform, “The chief industries should be
controlled by administrative boards upon which the
workers, the managers and the government should all
be represented.” Thus the old state socialism is passing.</p>

<p class="c013">In France long before the war we see the beginnings
of syndicalism in the steps taken to give to the actual
teaching force of universities a share in the administration
of the department of education. In 1896–1897 university
councils were established, composed of deans and
two delegates elected by each university faculty. While
these councils are under ministerial control, this is hailed
as the beginning of functionarist decentralization in
France. In 1910 was organized the representation of all
the personnel of the service of post, telephone and telegraph
in regional and central councils of discipline, and
also advisory representation to the heads of the service.</p>

<p class="c013">The best part of syndicalism is its recognition that
every department of our life must be controlled by those
who know most about that department, by those who
have most to do with that department. Teachers should
share both in the legislation and the administration
affecting education. Factory laws should not be made
by a Parliament in which factory managers and employees
are not, or are only partially, represented.</p>

<p class="c013">One movement toward syndicalism we see everywhere:
the forming of professional groups—commercial, literary,
scientific, artistic—is as marked as the forming of
industrial groups. Any analysis of society to-day must
study its groupings faithfully. We are told too that in
France these professional groups are beginning to have
political power, as was seen in several large towns in
the municipal elections before the war. Similar instances
are not wanting in England and America.</p>

<p class="c013">In Germany there are three strong “interest” organizations
<span class="pageno" id="Page_329">329</span>which have a large influence on politics: the
“Landlords’ League” which represents the conservatives,
the “Social Democrats” who represent labor, and
the “Hanseatic League for Manufactures, Trade and
Industry” founded in 1909 with the express object of
bringing forward its members as candidates for the
<span lang="de">Reichstag</span> and <span lang="de">Landtags</span>.<a id="r143"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f143"><sup>[143]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">We have an interesting instance in the United States
of political organization on occupational lines from which
we may learn much—I refer to the Nonpartisan league
of North Dakota composed of farmers which, inaugurated
in 1915, in 1916–7 carried the state elections of North
Dakota, electing a farmer-governor, and putting their
candidates in three of the supreme court judgeships, and
gaining 105 out of the 138 seats in the state legislature.
The first object of the league was the redress of economic
injustice suffered by the farmer. They saw that this
must be done through concerted control of the political
machinery. Of the legislation they wished, they secured:
(1) a new office of State Inspector of Grains, Weights
and Measures, (2) partial exemption of farm improvements
from taxation, (3) a new coöperative corporation
law, and (4) a law to prevent railroads from discriminating,
in supplying freight-cars, against elevators owned
by farmers’ coöperative societies.</p>

<p class="c013">In 1917 a Farmers’ Nonpartisan League of the state
of New York was organized. In September, 1917, the
North Dakota League became the “National Nonpartisan
League,” the organization spreading to several
of the neighboring states: Minnesota, South Dakota,
Idaho, Montana, etc. At the North Dakota state
primaries held in the summer of 1918, nearly all the
League’s candidates were nominated, thus insuring the
continuance of its control of the state government.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_330">330</span>In Denmark we are told the battle rages between the
agrarian party and the labor party. More and more the
struggle in Parliamentary countries is becoming a struggle
between interests rather than between parties based
on abstract principles. This must be fully taken into
account in the new state.</p>

<p class="c013">The hoped-for relation of industry to the state might
be summed up thus: we want a state which shall include
industry without on the one hand abdicating to industry,
or on the other controlling industry bureaucratically.
The present plans for guild socialism or syndicate control,
while they point to a possible future development,
and while they may be a step on the way, as a scheme of
political organization have many weak points. Such
experiments as the Industrial Councils of England are
interesting, but until further technique is worked out
we shall find that individual selfishness merely gives
way to group selfishness. From such experiments we
shall learn much, but the new ship of state cannot ride
on such turbulent waters.</p>

<p class="c013">The part labor will take in the new state depends now
largely upon labor itself. Labor must see that it cannot
reiterate its old cries, that it need no longer demand
“rights.” It is a question of a new conception of the
state and labor seeing its place within it. For a new
state is coming—we cannot be blind to the signs on
every side, we cannot be deaf to the voices within.
Labor needs leaders to-day who are alive not to the
needs of labor, but to the needs of the whole state: then
it will be seen as a corollary how labor fits in, what the
state needs from labor, what labor needs from the state,
what part labor is to have <em>in</em> the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_331">331</span>state.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_332">332</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="pt_4"><span class="sc">Part IV</span><br/> <br/>THE DUAL ASPECT OF THE GROUP:<br/> <br/><span class="large">A UNION OF INDIVIDUALS, AN INDIVIDUAL IN A LARGER UNION</span></h2>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_333">333</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_34">XXXIV<br/> <br/>THE MORAL STATE AND CREATIVE CITIZENSHIP</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE see now that the state as the appearance
of the federal principle must be more than
a coördinating agency. It must appear as
the great moral leader. Its supreme function is moral
ordering. What is morality? The fulfilment of relation
by man to man, since it is impossible to conceive an
isolated man: the father and mother appear in our mind
and with the three the whole infinite series. The state
is the ordering of this infinite series into their right
relations that the greatest possible welfare of the total
may be worked out. This ordering of relations is
morality in its essence and completeness. The state
must gather up into itself all the moral power of its day,
and more than this, as our relations are widening constantly
it must be the explorer which discovers the kind
of ordering, the kind of grouping, which best expresses
its intent.</p>

<p class="c013">But “things are rotten in Denmark.” The world is
at present a moral bankrupt, for nations are immoral
and men worship their nations. We have for centuries
been thinking out the morals of individuals. The morality
of the state must now have equal consideration. We
spring to that duty to-day. We have the ten commandments
for the individual; we want the ten commandments
for the state.</p>

<p class="c013">How is the state to gain moral and spiritual authority?</p>

<p class="c013">Only through its citizens in their growing understanding
of the widening promise of relation. The neighborhood
group feeds the imagination because we have daily
<span class="pageno" id="Page_334">334</span>to consider the wants of all in order to make a synthesis
of those wants; we have to recognize the rights of others
and adapt ourselves to them. Men must recognize and
unify difference and then the moral law appears in all its
majesty in concrete form. This is the universal striving.
This is the trend of all nature—the harmonious unifying
of all. The call of the moral law is constantly to
recognize this. Our neighborhood group gives us 
<a id="tn334"/>preëminently
the opportunity for moral training, the associated
groups continue it, the goal, the infinite goal, the
emergence of the all-inclusive state which is the visible
appearance of the total relativity of man in all right
connections and articulations.</p>

<p class="c013">The state accumulates moral power only through the
spiritual activity of its citizens. There is no state except
through me. James’ deep-seated antagonism to the
idealists is because of their assertion that the absolute is,
always has been and always will be. The contribution
of pragmatism is that we must work out the absolute.
You are drugging yourselves, cries James, the absolute
is real as far as you make it real, as far as you bring forth
in tangible, concrete form all its potentialities. In the
same way we have no state until we make one. This is
the teaching of the new psychology. We have not to
“postulate” all sorts of things as the philosophers do
(“organic actuality of the moral order” etc.), we have to
<em>live</em> it; if we can make a moral whole then we shall know
whether or not there is one. We cannot become the
state imaginatively, but only actually through our group
relations. Stamped with the image of All-State-potentiality
we must be forever making the state. We are
pragmatists in politics as the new school of philosophy
is in religion: just as they say that we are one with God
not by prayer and communion alone, but by doing the
God-deed every moment, so we are one with the state
<span class="pageno" id="Page_335">335</span>by actualizing the latent state at every instant of our
lives. As God appears only through us, so is the state
made visible through the political man. We must gird
up our loins, we must light our lamp and set forth, we
must <em>do</em> it.</p>

<p class="c013">The federal state can be the moral state only through
its being built anew from hour to hour by the activity
of all its members. We have had within our memory
three ideas of the individual’s relation to society: the
individual as deserving “rights” <em>from</em> society, next with
a duty <em>to</em> society, and now the idea of the individual
as an activity <em>of</em> society. Our relation to society is so
close that there is no room for either rights or duties.
This means a new ethics and a new politics. Citizenship
is not a right nor a privilege nor a duty, but an
activity to be exercised every moment of the time.
Democracy does not exist unless each man is doing his
part fully every minute, unless every one is taking his
share in building the state-to-be. This is the trumpet
call to men to-day. A creative citizenship must be made
the force of American political life, a trained, responsible
citizenship always in control creating always its own
life. In most of the writing on American politics we find
the demand for a “creative statesmanship” as the most
pressing need of America to-day. It is indeed true that
with so much crystallized conservatism and chaotic
radicalism we need leadership and a constructive leadership,
but the doctrine of true democracy is that every
man is and must be a creative citizen.</p>

<p class="c013">We are now awaking to this need. In the past the
American conception of government has been a machine-made
not a man-made thing. We have wanted a perfect
machine which could be set going like an international
exhibition by pressing the button, but who is going to
press the button? We have talked about the public
<span class="pageno" id="Page_336">336</span>without thinking that we were the public, of public
opinion as something quite distinct from any opinion of
our own. It is partly because men have not wanted the
trouble of governing themselves that they have put all
their faith in “good” officials and “good” charters.
“I hate this school, I wish it would burn up,” wrote a
boy home, “there’s too much old self-government about
it, you can’t have any fun.” Many of us have not
wanted that kind of government.</p>

<p class="c013">The idea of the state as a collection of units has fatally
misled us in regard to our duty as citizens. A man often
thinks of his share in the collective responsibility for
Boston as a 1/500,000 part of the whole responsibility.
This is too small a part to interest him, and therefore
he often disregards such an infinitesimal duty altogether.
Of course we tell him about little drops of water, little
grains of sand etc., but hitherto such eloquence has produced
little effect. This is because it is untrue. We must
somehow make it clear that the part of every man in a
great city is not <a id="tn336"/>analogous to the grain of sand in the
desert, it is not a 1/500,000 part of the whole duty. It
is a part so bound up with every other part that no
fraction of a whole can represent it. It is like the key
of a piano, the value of which is not in its being 1/56 of
all the notes, but in its infinite relations to all the other
notes. If that note is lacking every other note loses its
value.</p>

<p class="c013">Another twist in our ideas which has tended to reduce
our sense of personal responsibility has been that we
have often thought of democracy as a happy method by
which all our particular limitations are lost sight of in
the general strength. Matthew Arnold said, “Democracy
is a force in which the concert of a great number
of men makes up for the weakness of each man taken
by himself.” But there is no mysterious value in people
<span class="pageno" id="Page_337">337</span>conceived of all together. A lot of ignorant or a lot
of bad people do not acquire wisdom and virtue the
moment we conceive them collectively. There is no
alchemy by which the poornesses and weaknesses of the
individual get transmuted in the group; there is no
trick by which we can lose them in the whole. The
truth is that all that the individual has or is enhances
society, all that the individual lacks, detracts from
society. The state will become a splendid thing when
each one of us becomes a splendid individual. Democracy
does not mean being lost in the mass, it means
the contribution of every power I possess to social uses.
The individual is not lost in the whole, he makes the
whole.</p>

<p class="c013">A striking exception to the attitude of the average
American in the matter of his personal responsibility
was Mr. John Jay Chapman’s visit to Coatesville, Pennsylvania,
to do penance for “that blot on American
history”—the burning a negro to death in the public
square of Coatesville—because he felt that “it was not
the wickedness of Coatesville but the wickedness of all
America.”</p>

<p class="c013">But there are signs to-day of a new spirit among us.
We have begun to be restless under our present political
forms: we are demanding that the machine give way to
the man, we want a world of men governed by the will
of men. What signs have we that we are now ready for
a creative citizenship?</p>

<p class="c013">Every one is claiming to-day a share in the larger life
of society. Each of us wants to pour forth in community
use the life that we feel welling up within us. Citizens’
associations, civic clubs and forums are springing up
every day in every part of the country. Men are seeking
through direct government a closer share in law-making.
The woman suffrage movement, the labor
<span class="pageno" id="Page_338">338</span>movement, are parts of this vital and irresistible current.
They have not come from surface springs, their sources
are deep in the life forces of our age. There is a more
fundamental cause of our present unrest than the superficial
ones given for the woman movement, or the selfish
ones given for our labor troubles: it is not the “demand
for justice” from women nor the “economic greed” of
labor, but the desire for one’s place, for each to give his
share, for each to control his own life—this is the underlying
thought which is so profoundly moving both men
and women to-day.</p>

<p class="c013">But a greater awakening has come since April, 1917.
It has taken the ploughshare of fire to reveal our true
selves: this war is running the furrows deep in the
hearts of men and turning up desires of which they
were unconscious themselves in their days of ease. Men
are flocking to Washington at the sacrifice of business
and personal interests willing to pour out their all for
the great stake of democracy; the moment came when
the possession of self-government was imperilled and
all leapt forward ready to lay down their lives to preserve
it. This war has revealed the deeper self with its deeper
wishes to every man and he sees that he prizes beyond
life the power to govern himself. Now is the moment
to use all this rush of patriotism and devotion and love
of liberty and willingness to serve, and not let it sink
back again into its hidden and subterranean depths.
Let us develop the kind of institutions which will call
forth and utilize these powers and energies for peace as
for war, for the works of peace are glorious if men can
but see the goal. Let us make a fitting abiding place
for men’s innate grandeur. Let us build high the walls
of democracy and enlarge its courts for our daily dwelling.</p>

<p class="c013">Then must men understand that in peace as in war
ours is to be a life of endeavor, of work, of conscious
<span class="pageno" id="Page_339">339</span>effort towards conscious ends. The ordinary man is
not to do his work and then play a little in order to refresh
himself, with the understanding that the world of
industry and the government of his country are to be
run by experts. They are to be run by him and he is to
prepare himself to tackle his job. The leisure-time
problem is not how the workman can have more time
for play, it is how he can have more time for association,
to take his share in the integrated thought and will and
responsibility which is to make the new world. The
“good citizen” is not he who obeys the laws, but he who
has an active sense of being an integral part of the state.
This is the essence and the basis of effective good citizenship.
We are not part of a nation because we are living
within its boundaries, because we feel in sympathy with
it and have accepted its ideas, because we have become
naturalized. We are part of a nation only in so far as
we are helping to make that nation.</p>

<p class="c013">For this we must provide methods by which every
man is enabled to take his part. We are no longer to
put business and political affairs in the hands of one
set of men and then appoint another set as watch-dogs
over them, with the people at best a sort of chorus in
the background, at the worst practically non-existent.
But we are so to democratize our industrial and our
political methods that all will have a share in policy
and in responsibility. Exhortation to good citizenship
is useless. We get good citizenship by creating those
forms within which good citizenship can operate, by
making it possible to acquire the habit of good citizenship
by the practice of good citizenship.</p>

<p class="c013">The neighborhood group gives the best opportunity
for the training and for the practice of citizenship. The
leader of a neighborhood group should be able to help
every one discover his greatest ability, he should see
<span class="pageno" id="Page_340">340</span>the stimulus to apply, the path of approach, that the
constituents of his neighborhood should not merely
serve, but should serve in exactly that way which will
best fit themselves into the community’s needs. The
system of war registration where men and women record
what they are best able to do, might, through the medium
of the neighborhood group, be applied to the whole
country. The chief object of neighborhood organization
is not to right wrongs, as is often supposed, but to found
more firmly and build more widely the right.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, neighborhood organization gives us a definite
objective for individual responsibility. We cannot
understand our duty or perform our duty unless it is a
duty to <em>something</em>. It is because of the erroneous notion
that the individual is related to “society” rather than
to a group or groups that we can trace much of our lack
of responsibility. A man trusts vaguely that he is doing
his duty to “society,” but such vagueness gets him
nowhere. There is no “society,” and therefore he
often does no duty. But let him once understand that
his duty is to his group—to his neighborhood group, to
his industrial group—and he will begin to see his duty
as a specific, concrete thing taking definite shape for him.</p>

<p class="c013">But my gospel is not for a moment of citizenship as a
mere duty. We must bring to politics passion and joy.
It is not through the cramping and stultification of desire
that life is nobly lived, it is through seeing life in its fulness.
We want to use the whole of man. You cannot
put some of his energies on one side and some on the
other and say some are good and some bad—all are
good and should be put to good use. Men follow their
passions and should do so, but they must purify their
passions, educate them, discipline and direct them. We
turn our impulses to wrong uses, but our impulses are
not wrong. The forces of life should be used, not stifled.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_341">341</span>It is not corruption, dishonesty, we have to fight; it is
ignorance, lack of insight, desires not transmuted. We
want a state which will transmute the instincts of men
into the energies of the nation. You cannot dam the
stream entirely, you can only see that it flows so as to
irrigate and fructify. It all comes down to our fear of
men. If we could believe in men, if we could see that
circle which unites human passion and divine achievement
as a halo round the head of each human being,
then social and political reorganization would no longer
be a hope but a fact. The old individualism feared men;
the corner-stone of the new individualism is faith in
men. We need a constructive faith and a robust faith,
faith in men, in this world, in this day, in the Here and
the Now.</p>

<p class="c013">From the belief of savages in the spirits who ruled
their fate to the “power outside ourselves that makes for
righteousness,” through the weak man’s reliance on luck
and the strong man’s reliance on his isolated individuality,
we have had innumerable forms of the misunderstanding
of responsibility. But all this is now changing.
The distinguishing mark of our age is that we are coming
to a keen sense of personal responsibility, that we
are taking upon ourselves the blame for all our evils,
the charge for all our progress. We are beginning to
realize that the redemptive power is within the social
bond, that we have creative evolution only through individual
responsibility.</p>

<p class="c013">The old ways of thinking are breaking up. The New
Life is before us. Are we ready? Are we making ourselves
ready? A new man is needed for the New Life—a
man who understands self-discipline, who understands
training, who is willing to purge himself of his particularist
desires, who is conscious of relations as the stuff of
his existence.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_342">342</span>To sum up this chapter: the moral state is the task of
man. This must be achieved through the creative power
of man as brought into visibility and actuality through
his group life. The great cosmic force in the womb of
humanity is latent in the group as its creative energy;
that it may appear the individual must do his duty every
moment. We do not get the whole power of the group
unless every individual is given full value, is giving full
value. It is the creative spontaneity of each which
makes life march on irresistibly to the purposes of the
whole. Our social and political organization must be
such that this group life is possible. We hear much of
“the wasted forces of our nation.” The neighborhood
organization movement is a movement to use some of
the wasted forces of this nation—it is the biggest movement
yet conceived for conservation. Have we more
“value” in forests and water-power in America than
in human beings? The new generation cries, “No, this
release of the spiritual energy of human beings is to be
the salvation of the nation, for the life of all these human
beings is the nation.” The success of democracy depends
(1) upon the degree of responsibility it is possible
to arouse in every man and woman, (2) on the opportunity
they are given to exercise that responsibility. The
new democracy depends upon you and me. It depends
upon you and me because there is no one else in the
world but you and me. If I pledge myself to the new
democracy and you pledge yourself to the new democracy,
a new motor force will be born in the world.</p>

<p class="c013">We need to-day new principles. We can reform and
reform but all this is on the surface. What we have got
to do is to change some of the fundamental ideas of our
American life. This is not being disloyal to our past,
it is exactly the opposite. Let us be loyal to our inheritance
and tradition, but let us understand what that inheritance
<span class="pageno" id="Page_343">343</span>and tradition truly is. It is not <em>our</em> tradition
to stick to an outworn past, a conventional ideal, a rigid
religion. We are children of men who have not been
afraid of new continents or new ideas. In our blood is
the impulse to leap to the highest we can see, as the wills
of our fathers fixed themselves on the convictions of their
hearts. To spring forward and then to follow the path
steadfastly is forever the duty of Americans. We must
<em>live</em> democracy.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_344">344</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_35">XXXV<br/> <br/>THE WORLD STATE</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_1_0_5 c012">WE have seen the true state emerging through
the working of the
federal principle, dual
in its nature: (1) created by the law of
interpenetration, the unifying of difference, and (2)
representing the multiple man in his essential nature.
Through the further working of this principle the world-state
appears.</p>

<p class="c013">The lesson of the group is imperative for our international
relations. No “alliances,” no balance of power,
no agreements, no Hague tribunals will now satisfy us;
we know that it is only by creating a genuine community
of nations that we can have stability and growth—world
peace, world progress. What are the contributions
of group psychology to the League of Nations?</p>

<p class="c013">There is no way out of the hell of our present European
situation until we find a method of compounding
difference. Superficial moralists try to get us to like
some other nationality by emphasizing all the things we
have in common, but war can never cease until we see
the value of differences, that they are to be maintained
not blotted out. The white-man’s burden is not to make
others like himself. As we see the value of the individual,
of every individual, so we must see the value of each
nation, that all are needed. The pacifists have wanted
us to tolerate our enemies and the more extreme ones
to turn the other cheek when smitten. But tolerance is
intolerable. And we cannot dwell among enemies. The
ideal of this planet inhabited by Christian enemies all
turning the cheek does not seem to me a happy one.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_345">345</span>We must indeed, as the extreme militarists tell us, “wipe
out” our enemies, but we do not wipe out our enemies
by crushing them. The old-fashioned hero went out to
conquer his enemy; the modern hero goes out to disarm
his enemy through creating a mutual understanding.</p>

<p class="c013">The failure of international society in the past is a
fact fraught with deep significance: the differences between
nations are not to be overcome by one class of
people in a country uniting with the same class in another
country. The upper classes of Petrograd, Berlin, Paris
and London have very much the same manners and
habits. This has not brought peace. Artists the world
over have a common language. Workingmen have
tried to break down international barriers by assuming
that their interests were so identical that they could
unite across these barriers. But this has failed to bring
peace as the other <i lang="fr">rapprochements</i> have failed. Why?
Because they are all on the wrong track. International
peace is never coming by an increase of similarities
(this is the old-fashioned crowd-philosophy); international
peace is coming by the frankest and fullest kind
of recognition of our differences. Internationalism and
cosmopolitanism must not be confused. The aim of
cosmopolitanism is for all to be alike; the aim of internationalism
is a rich content of widely varying characteristic
and experience.</p>

<p class="c013">If it were true that we ought to increase the likenesses
between nations, then it would be legitimate for each
nation to try to impose its ideals upon others. In that
case England would try to spread her particular brand
of civilization, and Germany hers, for if some one kind
of civilization has to prevail, each will want it to be his
own. There is not room on this planet for a lot of similar
nations, but only for a lot of different nations. A
group of nations must create a group culture which shall
<span class="pageno" id="Page_346">346</span>be broader than the culture of one nation alone. There
must be a world-ideal, a whole-civilization, in which the
ideals and the civilization of every nation can find a
place. The ideal of one nation is not antagonistic to the
ideal of another, nor do these ideals exist in a row side
by side, but these different kinds of civilization are
bound up in one another. I am told that this is mysticism.
It is the most practical idea I have found in the
world.</p>

<p class="c013">It is said that a mighty struggle is before us by-and-by
when East meets West, and in that shock will be decided
which of these civilizations shall rule the world—that
this is to be the great world-decision. No, the great
world-decision is that each nation needs equally every
other, therefore each will not only protect, but foster
and increase the other that thereby it may increase its
own stature.</p>

<p class="c013">Perhaps one of the most useful lessons to be learned
from the group process is a new definition of patriotism.
Patriotism must not be herd-instinct. Patriotism must
be the individual’s rational, self-conscious building of
his country every moment. Loyalty means always to
create your group, not to wave a flag over it.<a id="r144"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f144"><sup>[144]</sup></a> We need
a patriotism which is not “following the lead” but involved
in a process in which all take part. In the place
of sentimental patriotism we want a common purpose, a
purpose evolved by the common life, to be used for the
common life. Some of our biologists mislead us when
they talk of the homogeneity of the herd as the aim of
nations. The nation may be a herd at present. What
we have to do is to make it a true group. Internationalism
must be based upon group units, not upon herd or
crowd units, that is, upon people united not by herd
instinct but by group conviction. If a nation is a crowd,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_347">347</span><a id="tn347"/>patriotism is mere hypnotism; if a nation is a true
federal state built up of interlocking and ascending
groups, then patriotism is self-evolved. When you are
building up an association or a nation you have to preach
loyalty; later it is part of the very substance which has
been built.</p>

<p class="c013">Then genuine loyalty, a self-evolved loyalty, will
always lead the way to higher units. Nationalism looks
out as well as in. It means, in addition to its other
meanings, every nation being responsible to a larger
whole. It is this new definition of patriotism which
America is now learning. It is this new patriotism
which must be taught our children, which we must
repeat to one another on our special patriotic day, July
4th, and on every occasion when we meet. This new
patriotism looks in, it looks out: we have to learn that
we are not wholly patriotic when we are working with
all our heart for America merely; we are truly patriotic
only when we are working also that America may take
her place worthily and helpfully in the world of nations.
Nationalism is not my nation for itself or my nation
against others or my nation dominating others, but
simply my nation taking its part as “an equal among
equals.”</p>

<p class="c013">Shall this hideous war go on simply because people
will not understand nationalism? Nationalism and
internationalism are not opposed. We do not lop off
just enough patriotism to our country to make enough
for a world-state: he who is capable of the greatest
loyalty to his own country is most ready for a wider
loyalty. There is possible no world-citizenship the ranks
of which are to be filled by those who do not care very
much for their own country. We have passed through
a period when patriotism among cultivated people
seemed often to be at a discount—the ideal was to be
<span class="pageno" id="Page_348">348</span>“citizens of the world.” But we see now that we can
never be “citizens of the world” until we learn how to
be citizens of America or England or France. Internationalism
is not going to swallow up nationalism.
Internationalism will accentuate, give point, significance,
meaning, value, reality, to nationalism.</p>

<p class="c013">Whether we can have a lasting peace or not depends
upon whether we have advanced far enough to be capable
of loyalty to a higher unit, not as a substitute for
our old patriotism to our country, but in addition to it.
Peace will come by the group consciousness rising from
the national to the international unit. This cannot be
done through the imagination alone but needs actual
experiments in world union, or rather experiments first
in the union of two or more nations. Men go round
lecturing to kind-hearted audiences and say, “Can you not
be loyal to something bigger than a nation?” And the
kind-hearted audiences reply, “Certainly, we will now, at
your very interesting suggestion, be loyal to a league of
nations.” But this is only a wish on their part, its realization
can never come by <em>wishing</em> but only by <em>willing</em>,
and willing is a process, you have to put yourself in a
certain place from which to will. We must, in other
words, try experiments with a league of nations, and out
of the actual life of that league will come loyalty to it.
We are not ready for the life of the larger group because
some teacher of ethics has taught us “to respect other
men’s loyalties.” We are ready for it when our experience
has incorporated into every tissue of our thought-life
the knowledge that we need other men’s loyalties.
Loyalty, therefore, is not the chickens running back to
the coop, also it is not a sentiment which we decide
arbitrarily to adopt, it is the outcome of a process, the
process of belonging.</p>

<p class="c013">Of course there must be some motive for the larger
<span class="pageno" id="Page_349">349</span>union: we shall probably first get nations into an international
league through their economic interests; then
when we have a genuine union the sense of belonging
begins. When men have felt the need of larger units
than nations and have formed “alliances,” they have
not felt that they belonged to these alliances. The
sense of belonging ended at the British Empire or the
German Empire. But the reason Germany became one
empire and Italy one nation was because an economic
union brought it home to the people daily that they
were Italians, not Venetians, Germans, not Bavarians.
We must feel the international bond exactly as we feel
the national bond. Some one in speaking of the difficulties
of internationalism has said, “It is easier to make
sacrifices for those whom you know well, your own
countrymen, than for strangers.” But internationalism
has not come when we decide that we are willing to make
sacrifices for strangers. This fallacy has been the stumbling
block of some of the pacifists. To make sacrifices
for “strangers” will never succeed. We make sacrifices
for our own nation because of group feeling. We shall
make sacrifices for a league of nations when we get the
same feeling of a bond.</p>

<p class="c013">We may, perhaps, look forward to Europe going
through something of the same process which we have
gone through in the United States. The colonies joined
in a federal government. The union was something
entirely apart from themselves. The men of Massachusetts
were first and last men of Massachusetts. We
belonged for good reasons to a larger unit, but it was
only very slowly that we gained any actual feeling of
belonging to the United States, of loving it because we
were a constituent part of it, because we were helping
to make it, not just as an external authority to which
we had promised loyalty. The American colonies did
<span class="pageno" id="Page_350">350</span>not undertake to look pleasant and be kind to one
another, they went to work and learned how to live together.
And state jealousy has been diminished every
year, not by any one preaching to us, but by the process
of living together. This is what may happen in a league
of nations.</p>

<p class="c013">The great lesson of the group process, in which all
others are involved, is that particularism, however
magnified, is no longer possible. There is no magic by
which selfishness becomes patriotism the moment we
can invoke the nation. The change must be this: as
we see now that a nation cannot be healthy and virile if
it is merely protecting the rights of its members, so we
must see that we can have no sound condition of world
affairs merely by the protection of each individual nation—that
is the old theory of individual rights. Each
nation must play its part in some larger whole. Nations
have fought for national rights. These are as obsolete
as the individual rights of the last century. What raises
this war to a place never reached by any war before is that
the Allies are not fighting for national rights. As long
as history is read the contribution of America to the
Great War will be told as America’s taking her stand
squarely and responsibly on the position that national
particularism was in 1917 dead.</p>

<p class="c013">And as we are no longer to talk of the “rights” of
nations, so no longer must “independent” nations be
the basis of union. In our present international law a
sovereign nation is one that is independent of other
nations—surely a complete legal fiction. And when
stress is laid on independence in external relations as
the nature of sovereignty, it is but a step to the German
idea that independence of others can develop into authority
over others. This tendency is avoided when we
think of sovereignty: (1) as <em>looking in</em>, as authority over
<span class="pageno" id="Page_351">351</span>its own members, as the independence which is the result
of the complete interdependence of those members;
and when we at the same time (2) think of this independence
as <em>looking out</em> to other independences to form
through a larger interdependence the larger sovereignty
of a larger whole. Interdependence is the keynote of
the relations of nations as it is the keynote of the relations
of individuals within a nation. As no man can be
entirely free except through his perfected relation to his
group, so no nation can be truly independent until a
genuine union has brought about interdependence. As
we no longer think that every individual has a final purpose
of his own independent of any community, so we
no longer think that each nation has a “destiny” independent
of the “destiny” of other nations.</p>

<p class="c013">The error of our old political philosophy was that the
state always looks in: it has obligations to its members,
it has none to other states; it merely enters into agreements
with them for mutual benefit thereby obtained.
International law of the future must be based not on
nations as “sovereigns” dealing with one another, but
on nations as members of a society dealing with one
another. The difference in these conceptions is enormous.
We are told that cessions of sovereignty must
be the basis of an international government. We cannot
have a lasting international union until we entirely reform
such notions of sovereignty: that the power of the
larger unit is produced mechanically by taking away
bits of power from all the separate units. Sovereignty
is got by giving to every unit its fullest value and thereby
giving birth to a new power—the power of a larger
whole. We must give up “sovereign” nations in the
old sense, but with our present definition of sovereignty
we may keep all the real sovereignty we have and then
unite to evolve together a larger sovereignty.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_352">352</span>This idea must be carefully worked out: we can take
each so-called “sovereign power” which we are thinking
of “delegating” to a League of Nations and we can see
that that delegating does not make us individual nations
less “sovereign” and less “free” but more so—it is the
Great Paradox of our time. The object of every proper
“cession” of sovereignty is to make us freer than ever
before. Is it to be “sovereign” and “free” for nations
suspiciously and fearfully to keep sleepless watch on one
another while they build ship for ship, plane for plane?
Have England and Germany been proudly conscious of
their “freedom” when thinking of Central Africa?
When the individual nations give up their separate
sovereignty—as regards their armaments, as regards
the control of the regions which possess the raw materials,
as regards the great waterways of the world, as regards,
in fact, all which affects their joint lives—the falling
chains of a real slavery will reverberate through the world.
For unrelated sovereignty, with world conditions as they
are to-day, is slavery.</p>

<p class="c013">The idea of “sovereign” nations must go as completely
as is disappearing the idea of sovereign individuals.
The isolation of sovereign nations is so utterly complete
that they cannot really (and I mean this literally) even
see each other. The International League is the one
solution for the relation of nations. Whenever we say
we can have a “moral” international law on any other
basis, we write ourselves down pure sentimentalists.</p>

<p class="c013">There are many corollaries to this project. We do not
need, for instance, a more vigorous protection of neutrals,
but the abolition of neutrals. The invasion of the
rights of neutrals in this war by both sides shows that
we can no longer have neutrals in our scheme of union;
all must come within the bond.</p>

<p class="c013">Further, diplomatic relations will be entirely changed.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_353">353</span>“Honor among thieves” means loyalty to your group:
while to lie or to try to get the better of your own particular
group is an unpardonable offence, you may deceive
an outsider. We see now the psychological reason for this.
Diplomatic lying will not go until diplomatists instead of
treating with one another as members of alien groups
consider <a id="tn353"/>themselves all as members of one larger group—the
League of Nations.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, one nation cannot injure another merely;
the injury will be against the community, and the community
of nations will look upon it as such. Under our
present international system the attack of one nation on
another is the same as the attack of one outlaw on another.
But under a civilized international system, the attack
of one individual on another is an attack on society and
the whole society must punish it. The punishment,
however, will not consist in keeping the offender out of
the alliance. If the Allies win, Germany should not be
punished by keeping her out of a European league; she
must be shown how to take her place within it. And
it must be remembered that we do not join a league
of nations solely to work out our relations to one another,
but to learn to work for the larger whole, for international
values. Until this lesson is learned no league of
nations can be successful.</p>

<p class="c013">Finally, the League of Nations is against the theory of
the balance of power, but this has been already considered
in the chapter on The Federal State.</p>

<p class="c013">To sum up all these particularist fallacies: live and
let live can never be our international motto. <i lang="fr">Laissez-faire</i>
fails as ignominiously in international relations as
within a single nation. Our new motto must be, Live
in such manner that the fulness of life may come to all.
This is “the ledge and the leap” for twentieth-century
thought.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_354">354</span>Organized coöperation is in the future to be the basis
of international relations. We are international in our
interests. We do not want an American education, an
English education, a French education. “Movements”
seek always an international society. We have international
finance. Our standards of living are becoming
internationalized. Socially, economically, in the world
of thought, national barriers are being broken down. It
is only in politics that we are national. This must soon
change: with all these <i lang="fr">rapprochements</i> we cannot be
told much longer of fundamental differences between us
which can be settled only by murdering each other.</p>

<p class="c013">People thought that Italy could not be united, that
the duchies of Germany would never join. Cavour and
Bismark had indeed no easy part. But if one hundred
millions of people in Central Europe can be made to see
the evils of separation, cannot others? With our greater
facilities of communication, with our increased commercial
intercourse and our increased realization of the
interdependence of nations (a manufacturing nation cannot
get along without the food-producing nations, etc.),
this ought not now to be impossible. Or has the single
state exhausted our political ability? Are we willing to
acknowledge this? We have had very little idea yet of
a community of nations. The great fault of Germany is
not that she overestimates her own power of achievement,
which is indeed marvellous, but that she has
never yet had any conception of a community of nations.
Let her apply all her own theory of the subordination of
the individual to the whole to the subordination of Germany
to an allied Europe, and she would be a most valuable
member of a European league.</p>

<p class="c013">The group process thus shows us that a genuine community
of nations means the correlation of interests,
the development of an international ethics, the creation
<span class="pageno" id="Page_355">355</span>of an international will, the self-evolving of a higher
loyalty, and above all and including all, the full responsibility
of every nation for the welfare of every other.</p>

<p class="c013">With such an aim before us courts of arbitration seem
a sorry makeshift. We are told that as individuals no
longer fight duels but take their disputes into the courts,
so nations must now arbitrate, that is, take their dispute
to some court. But what has really ousted duels has not
been the courts but a different conception of the relation
between men; so what will do away with war will not be
courts of arbitration, but a different conception of the
relations between nations. We need machinery not
merely for settling disputes but for preventing disputes
from arising; not merely for interpreting past relations,
but for giving expression to new relations; not merely
to administer international law, but to make international
law—not a Hague court but an international
legislature.</p>

<p class="c013">A community of nations needs a constitution, not
treaties. Treaties are of the same nature as contract.
Just as in internal law contract is giving way to the truer
theory of community, so the same change must take
place in international law. It is true that the first step
must be more progressive treaties before we can hope
for a closer union, but let us keep clearly before us the
goal in order that in making these treaties they shall be
such that they will open the way in time to a real federation,
to an international law based not on “sovereign”
nations.</p>

<p class="c013">We have already seen that it is the <em>creation</em> of a collective
will which we need most in our social and political
life, not the enforcing of it; it is the same with a league
of nations—we must create an international will. We
want neither concession nor compromise. And a vague
“brotherhood” is certainly not enough. As we have
<span class="pageno" id="Page_356">356</span>seen the group as the workshop for the making of the
collective will, so we see that we cannot have an international
will without creating a community of nations.
Group psychology will revolutionize international law.
The group gets its authority through the power it has
<em>in itself</em> of integrating ideas and interests. No so-called
collective will which is not a genuine collective will, that
is, which is not evolved by this process, will have real
authority; therefore no stable international relations are
possible except those founded on the creation of an actual
community of nations.</p>

<p class="c013">What interests us most in all the war literature is any
proposed <em>method</em> of union. The importance of an international
league as a peace plan is that you can never
aim directly at peace, peace is what you get through
other things. Much of the peace propaganda urges us
to choose peace rather than war. But the decision between
“war” or “peace” never lies within our power.
These are mere words to gather up in convenient form
of expression an enormous amount that is underneath.
All sorts of interests compete, all sorts of ideas compete
or join: if they can join, we have peace; if they must
compete, we have war. But war or peace is merely an
outcome of the process; peace or war has come, by
other decisions, long before the question of peace or war
ever arises.</p>

<p class="c013">All our hope therefore of future international relations
lies, not in the ethical exhortations of the pacifists, nor
in plans for an economic war, but in the recognition of
the possibility of a community of nations.</p>

<p class="c013">In making a plea for some experiment in international
coöperation, I remember, with humiliation, that we have
fought because it is the easy way. Fighting solves no
problems. The problems which brought on this war will
all be there to be settled when the war ends. But we
<span class="pageno" id="Page_357">357</span>have war as the line of least resistance. We have war
when the mind gives up its job of agreeing as too difficult.<a id="r145"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f145"><sup>[145]</sup></a>
It is often stated that conflict is a necessity of the
human soul, and that if conflict should ever disappear
from among us, individuals would deteriorate and society
collapse. But the effort of agreeing is so much more
strenuous than the comparatively easy stunt of fighting
that we can harden our spiritual muscles much more
effectively on the former than the latter. Suppose I
disagree with you in a discussion and we make no effort
to join our ideas, but “fight it out.” I hammer away with
my idea, I try to find all the weakest parts of yours, I
refuse to see anything good in what you think. That
is not nearly so difficult as trying to recognize all the
possible subtle interweavings of thought, how one part
of your thought, or even one aspect of one part, may
unite with one part or one aspect of one part of mine etc.
Likewise with coöperation and competition in business:
coöperation is going to prove so much more difficult
than competition that there is not the slightest danger
of any one getting soft under it.</p>

<p class="c013">The choice of war or peace is not the choice between
effort and stagnation. We have thought of peace as the
lambs lying down together after browsing on the consciousness
of their happy agreements. We have thought
of peace as a letting go and war as a girding up. We have
thought of peace as the passive and war as the active
way of living. The opposite is true. War is not the most
strenuous life. It is a kind of rest-cure compared to the
<span class="pageno" id="Page_358">358</span>task of reconciling our differences. I knew a young
business man who went to the Spanish war who said
when he came back that it had been as good as going to
a sanitarium; he had simply obeyed commands and had
not made a decision or thought a thought since he left
home. From war to peace is not from the strenuous to
the easy existence; it is from the futile to the effective,
from the stagnant to the active, from the destructive to
the creative way of life.</p>

<p class="c013">If, however, peace means for you simply the abstinence
from bloodshed, if it means instead of the fight of
the battlefield, the fight of employer and employed, the
fight of different interests in the legislature, the fight
of competing business firms, that is a different matter.
But if you are going to try to <em>solve</em> the problems of capital
and labor, of competing business interests, of differing
nations, it is a tougher job than standing up on the
battlefield.</p>

<p class="c013">We are told that when the North Sea fishermen found
that they were bringing flabby codfish home to market,
they devised the scheme of introducing one catfish into
every large tank of codfish. The consequent struggle
hardened the flesh of the fish and they came firm to
market. The conclusion usually drawn from all such
stories is that men need fighting to keep them in moral
condition. But what I maintain is that if we want to
train our moral muscles we are devising a much harder
job for them if we try to agree with our catfish than to
fight him.</p>

<p class="c013">Civilization calls upon us to “Agree with thine adversary.”
It means a supreme effort on our part, and the
future of the world depends upon whether we can make
this effort, whether we are equal to the cry of civilization
to the individual man, to the individual nation. It is a
supreme effort because it is not, as sometimes thought,
<span class="pageno" id="Page_359">359</span>a matter of feeling. To feel kindly, to desire peace—no,
we must summon every force of our natures, trained
minds and disciplined characters, to find the <em>methods</em> of
agreement. We may be angry and fight, we may feel
kindly and want peace—it is all about the same. The
world will be regenerated by the people who rise above
both these passive ways and heroically seek, by whatever
hardship, by whatever toil, the methods by which people
<em>can</em> agree.</p>

<p class="c013">What has this young twentieth century gone out to
fight? Autocracy? The doctrine of the right of might?
Yes, and wherever found, in Germany or among ourselves.
And wherever found these rest on the consciousness
of separateness. It is the conviction of
separateness which has to be conquered before civilization
can proceed. Community must be the foundation
stone of the New State.</p>

<hr class="c014"/>

<p class="c013">The history of modern times from the point of view
of political science is the history of the growth of democracy;
from the point of view of social psychology it
is the history of the growth of the social consciousness.
These two are one. But the mere consciousness of the
social bond is not enough. Frenssen said of Jörn Uhl,
“He became conscious of his soul, but it was empty and
he had now to furnish it.” We have become conscious of
a social soul, we have now to give it content. It is a
long way from the maxim, “Religion is an affair between
man and his Maker,” to the cry of Mazzini,
“Italy is itself a religion,” but we surely to-day have
come to see in the social bond and the Creative Will, a
compelling power, a depth and force, as great as that
of any religion we have ever known. We are ready for
a new revelation of God. It is not coming through any
<span class="pageno" id="Page_360">360</span>single man, but through the men and men who are banding
together with one purpose, in one consecrated service,
for a great fulfilment. Many of us have felt bewildered
in a confused and chaotic world. We need to focus both
our aspirations and our energy; we need to make these
effective and at the same time to multiply them by their
continuous use. This book is a plea for the more abundant
life: for the fulness of life and the growing life. It is
a plea against everything static, against the idea that
there need be any passive material within the social bond.
It is a plea for a splendid progress dependent upon every
splendid one of us. We need a new faith in humanity,
not a sentimental faith or a theological tenet or a philosophical
conception, but an active faith in that creative
power of men which shall shape government and industry,
which shall give form equally to our daily life with our
neighbor and to a world
<span class="pageno" id="Page_361">361</span>league.</p>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c001"/>
</div>
<div class="chapter">
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_362">362</span>
  <h2 class="c005" id="appendix">APPENDIX</h2>
</div>

<div class="pbb">
 <hr class="pb c003"/>
</div>
<div>
  <span class="pageno" id="Page_363">363</span>
  <h4 class="c016" id="ch_36">APPENDIX<br/> <br/>THE TRAINING FOR THE NEW DEMOCRACY</h4>
</div>
<hr class="c017"/>

<p class="drop-capa0_2_0_5 c012">THE training for the new democracy must be from
the cradle—through nursery, school and play, and
on and on through every activity of our life.
Citizenship is not to be learned in good government classes
or current events courses or lessons in civics. It is to
be acquired only through those modes of living and acting
which shall teach us how to grow the social consciousness. This
should be the object of all day school education, of all night
school education, of all our supervised recreation, of all our
family life, of our club life, of our civic life.</p>

<p class="c013">When we change our ideas of the relation of the individual
to society, our whole system of education changes. What we
want to teach is interdependence, that efficiency waits on
discipline, that discipline is obedience to the whole of which I
am a part. Discipline has been a word long connected with
school life—when we know how to teach <em>social</em> discipline,
then we shall know how to “teach school.”</p>

<p class="c013">The object of education is to fit children into the life of the
community.<a id="r146"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f146"><sup>[146]</sup></a> Every coöperative method conceivable, therefore,
must be used in our schools for this end. It is at school
that children should begin to learn group initiative, group
responsibility—in other words social functioning. The group
process must be learnt by practice. We should therefore
teach subjects which require a working together, we should
have group recitations, group investigations, and a gradual
plan of self-government. Every child must be shown his
place in the life that builds and his relation to all others who
are building. All the little daily and hourly experiences of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_364">364</span>his interrelations must be constantly interpreted to him. Individual
competition must, of course, disappear. All must see
that the test of success is ability to work with others, not to
surpass others.</p>

<p class="c013">Group work is, indeed, being introduced into our more progressive
schools. Manual training, especially when the object
made is large enough to require the work of two or more,
cooking classes, school papers, printing classes etc., give opportunity
for organization into groups with the essential advantage
of the group: coördinated effort.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, we should have, and are beginning to have, group
recitations. A recitation should not be to test the pupil but
to create something. Every pupil should be made to feel
that his point of view is slightly different from any one’s else,
and that, therefore, he has something to contribute. He is not
to “recite” something which the teacher knows already; he
is to contribute not only to the ideas of his fellow-pupils but
also to those of his teacher. And this is not impossible even
for the youngest. Once when I was in Paris I made the acquaintance
of little Michael, a charming English boy of five,
who upon being taken to the Louvre by his mother and asked
what he thought of the Mona Lisa, replied, with a most pathetic
expression, “I don’t think she looks as if she liked little
boys.” That was certainly a contribution to Mona Lisa
criticism.</p>

<p class="c013">But after the child has been taught in his group recitation
to contribute his own point of view, he must immediately be
shown that he cannot over-insist upon it; he must be taught
that it is only a part of the truth, that he should be eager for
all the other points of view, that all together they can find
a point of view which no one could work out alone. In
other words we can teach collective thinking through group
recitations.</p>

<p class="c013">A group recitation may give each pupil the feeling that a
whole is being created: (1) by different points of view being
brought out and discussed, and (2) by every one contributing
something different: one will do some extra reading, one will
bring clippings from newspapers and periodicals, one will take
<span class="pageno" id="Page_365">365</span>his camera to the Art Museum and take pictures of the casts.
Thus we get life, and the lesson of life, into that hour. Thus
may we learn the obligation and the joy of “belonging,” not
only when our school goes to play some other school, but in
every recitation hour of the day. The old idea was that no
one should help another in a recitation; the new idea is that
every one is to help every one else. The kind of competition
you have in a group recitation is whether you have added as
much as any one else. You now feel responsible not only for
your contribution but that the recitation as a whole should be
a worthy thing. Such an aim will overcome much of the present
class-room indifference.</p>

<p class="c013">Many more of the regular school activities could be arranged
on a group basis than is now thought possible—investigation
for instance. This is a big word, but the youngest
children sent out to the woods in spring are being taught
“original research.”</p>

<p class="c013">Again, every good teacher teaches her pupils to “assemble”
his different thoughts, shows them that a single thought is not
useful, but only as it is connected with others. The modern
teacher is like the modern curator who thinks the group significance
of a particular classification more important than the
significance of each isolated piece. The modern teacher does
not wish his pupils’ minds to be like an old-fashioned museum—a
hodge-podge of isolated facts—but a useful workshop.</p>

<p class="c013">Again, to learn genuine discussion should be considered an
essential part of our education. Every child must be trained
to meet the clash of difference—difference of opinion, difference
of interest—which life brings. In some universities
professors are putting aside one hour a week for a discussion
hour. This should be done in all colleges and schools, and
then it should be seen to that it is genuine discussion that
takes place in that hour.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, in many schools supervised playground and
gymnasium activities are being established, athletic clubs
encouraged, choruses and dramatic leagues developed, not
only because of their value from the health or art point of
view, but because they teach the social lesson.</p>

<p class="c013"><span class="pageno" id="Page_366">366</span>The question of self-government in the schools is too complicated
a subject and has met with too many difficulties,
notwithstanding its brilliant successes, to take up here, but undoubtedly
some amount of self-control can be given to certain
groups, and in the upper grades to whole schools, and when
this can be done no training for democracy is equal to the
practice of democracy.</p>

<p class="c013">The aim is to create such a mental atmosphere for children
that it is natural for them to wish to take their part, to make
them understand that citizenship is not obeying the laws nor
voting, nor even being President,<a id="r147"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f147"><sup>[147]</sup></a> but that all the visions of
their highest moments, all the aspirations of their spiritual
nature can be satisfied through their common life, that only
thus do we get “practical politics.”</p>

<p class="c013">In our industrial schools it is obviously easier to carry further
the teaching of coördinated effort than in the regular day
schools.</p>

<p class="c013">Our evening schools must adopt the methods of the more
progressive day schools, and must, as they are doing in many
cases, add to the usual activities of evening schools.</p>

<p class="c013">The most conscious and deliberate preparation for citizenship
is given by the “School Centres” now being established
all over the United States. The School Centre movement is
a movement to mould the future, to direct evolution instead
of trusting to evolution. The subject of this book has been
the necessity for community organization, but the ability to
meet this necessity implies that we know how to do that most
difficult thing in the world—work with other people: that
we are ready to sacrifice individual interests to the general
good, that we have a fully developed sense of responsibility,
that we are trained in initiative and action. But this is not
true. If the School Centres are to fill an important place in
neighborhood life, they must not only give an opportunity
for the development of neighborhood consciousness and neighborhood
organization, but they must train up young people
to be ready for neighborhood organization. We who believe
<span class="pageno" id="Page_367">367</span>in the School Centre as one of the most effective means we
have for reconstructing city life believe that the School Centre
can furnish this training. We hear everywhere of the corruption
of American municipal politics, but why should the next
generation do any better than the present unless we are training
our young men and women to a proper understanding of
the meaning of good citizenship and the sense of their own
responsibility? The need of democracy to-day is a trained
citizenship. We must deliberately train for citizenship as
for music, art or trade. The School Centres are, in fact, both
the prophecy of the new democracy and a method of its fulfilment.
They provide an opportunity for its expression, and
at the same time give to men and women the opportunity for
the training needed to bring it to its highest expression.</p>

<p class="c013">The training in the School Centres consists of: group-activities,
various forms of civic clubs and classes, and practice in
self-government.</p>

<p class="c013">First, we have in the Centres those activities which require
working together, such as dramatic and choral clubs, orchestras
and bands, civic and debating clubs, folk-dancing and
team-games. We want choral unions and orchestras, to be
sure, because they will enrich the community life at the same
time that they emphasize the neighborhood bond, we want
civic and debating clubs because we all need enlightenment on
the subjects taken up in these clubs, but the primary reason
for choosing such activities is that they are group activities
where each learns to identify himself with a social whole.
This is the first lesson for all practical life. Take two young
men in business. One says of his firm, “<em>They</em> are doing so and
so”: his attitude is that the business is a complete whole,
without him, to which he may indeed be ministering in some
degree. Another young man who has been a few weeks with
an old-established firm says “<em>We</em> have done so and so for
years,” “<em>Our</em> policy is so and so.” You perhaps smile but
you know that he possesses one of the chief requirements for
rising.</p>

<p class="c013">In our group the centre of consciousness is transferred from
our private to our associate life. Thus through our group
<span class="pageno" id="Page_368">368</span>activities does neighborhood life become a preparation for
neighborhood life; thus does it prepare us for the pouring
out of strength and strain and effort in the common cause.</p>

<p class="c013">Then the consciousness of the solidarity of the group leads
directly to a sense of responsibility, responsibility in a group
and for a group. Sooner or later every one in a democracy
must ask himself, what am I worth to society? Our effort in
the Centres is to help the birth of that moment. This is the
social lesson: for people to understand that their every act,
their work, their home-life, the kind of recreation they demand,
the kind of newspapers they read, the bearing of their children,
the bringing up of their children—that all these so-called
private acts create the city in which they live. It is not just
when we vote, or meet together in political groups, or when
we take part in some charitable or philanthropic or social
scheme, that we are performing our duty to society. Every
single act of our life should be looked at as a social act.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, we learn responsibility for our group as well as
to our group. We used to think, “I must do right no matter
what anyone else does.” Now we know how little that exhausts
our duty; we must feel an equally keen responsibility
for our whole group.</p>

<p class="c013">These then are the lessons which we hope group activities
will teach—solidarity, responsibility and initiative,—how to
take one’s place worthily in a self-directed, self-governing
community.</p>

<p class="c013">In the first year of one of our Boston Centres, the people
of a certain nationality asked if they might meet regularly at
the Centre. At their first meeting, however, they broke up
without accomplishing anything, without even deciding to
meet again, simply because those present had never learned
how to do things with other people. Each man seemed a
little island by himself. They explained to me the fact that
they made no plans for further meeting by saying that they
found they did not know parliamentary law, and some of them
must learn parliamentary law before they could organize. I
did not feel, however, that that was the real reason. I was
sure it was because they had never been accustomed to do
<span class="pageno" id="Page_369">369</span>things in groups—they had probably never belonged to a
basket-ball team or a dramatic club—and we have to learn
the trick of association as we have to learn anything else.</p>

<p class="c013">But the Centres prepare for citizenship not only by group
activities but also by direct civic teaching. This takes the
form not only of lectures, classes in citizenship, but also of
societies like the “junior city councils” or the “legislatures”
where municipal and state questions are discussed, and young
men’s and young women’s civic clubs. And it must be remembered
that the chief value of these clubs is not the information
acquired, not even the interest aroused, but the lesson learned
of genuine discussion with all the advantages therefrom.<a id="r148"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f148"><sup>[148]</sup></a></p>

<p class="c013">But I have written as if it were our young people who were
to be educated by the group activities of the Centres, as if the
young people were to have the training for democracy and the
older people the exercise of democracy. Nothing could be
further from my thoughts. The training for democracy can
never cease while we exercise democracy. We older ones need
it exactly as much as the younger ones. That education is a
continuous process is a truism. It does not end with graduation
day; it does not end when “life” begins. Life and education
must never be separated. We must have more life in our
universities, more education in our life. Chesterton says of
H. G. Wells, “One can lie awake nights and hear him grow.”
That it might be said of all of us! We need education all
the time and we all need education. The “ignorant vote”
does not (or should not) mean the vote of the ignorant, we
get an ignorant vote very often from educated people; an
ignorant vote means ignorance of some particular subject.</p>

<p class="c013">A successful business man said to me the other day, “I
graduated from college with honors, but all I learned there
has done me little good directly. What I got out of college
was an attitude towards life: that life was a matter of constantly
learning, that my education had begun and was going
on as long as I lived.” Then he went on to say, “This is the
attitude I want somehow to get into my factory. Boys and
<span class="pageno" id="Page_370">370</span>girls come to me with the idea, ‘School is over, learning is
behind me, now work begins.’ This is all wrong. I am now
planning a school in connection with my factory, not primarily
on account of what they will learn in the school, but in order
to make them see that their life of steady learning is just
beginning and that their whole career depends on their getting
this attitude.” Now this is what we want the Centres to
do for people: to help them acquire the attitude of learning,
to make them see that education is for life, that it is as
valuable for adults as for young people.</p>

<p class="c013">We have many forms of adult education: extension courses,
continuation and night schools, correspondence schools, courses
in settlements, Young Men’s Christian Associations etc. And
yet all these take a very small per cent of our adult population.
Where are people to get this necessary education? Our present
form of industry does not give enough. Tending a machine
all day is not conducive to thought;<a id="r149"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f149"><sup>[149]</sup></a> a man thus employed
gets to rely entirely on his foreman. The man who lets his
foreman do his thinking for him all day tends to need a political
boss at night. We must somehow counteract the paralyzing
effect of the methods of modern industry. In the School
Centre we have an opportunity for adult education in the only
forms in which many people, tired out with the day’s work, can
take it: discussion, recreation, group activities and self-governing
clubs. The enormous value of that rapidly spreading
movement, the forum movement, and its connection with the
School Centres, there is space here only to mention.</p>

<p class="c013">Many people, however, even if not the majority, are eager
and hungry for what one man spoke to me of as “real
education.” University extension work is spreading rapidly
and in many cases adapting itself marvellously to local needs;
a much closer connection could be made between the opportunities
of the university and the training of the citizen for
his proposed increased activity in the state by having university
extension work a recognized part of the School Centre, so
that every one, the farmer or the humblest workman, might
<span class="pageno" id="Page_371">371</span>know that even although he cannot give all his time to
college life, he may have the advantage of its training. In
the School Centre should be opportunity for the study of
social and economic conditions, the work of constitutional
conventions, the European situation and our relation to it,
the South American situation and our relation to it, etc. etc.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, we must remember when we say we all need
more education, that even if we could be “entirely” educated,
so to speak, at any one minute, the next minute life would
have set new lessons for us. The world is learning all the time
about health, food values, care of children etc. All that science
discovers must be spread. Adult education means largely the
assimilation of new ideas; from this point of view no one can
deny its necessity.</p>

<p class="c013">I have said that the Centres prepare for citizenship through
group activities, through civic clubs and classes and through
actual practice in self-government. The Centres may be a
real training in self-government, a real opportunity for the
development of those qualities upon which genuine self-direction
depends, by every club or group being self-governed, and
the whole Centre self-directed and self-controlled by means of
delegates elected from each club meeting regularly in a Central
Council. If we want a nation which shall be really self-governed
not just nominally self-governed, we must train up our young
people in the ways of self-direction.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover, the development of responsibility and self-direction
will be the most effective means of raising standards.
We are hearing a great deal just now of regulated recreation,
regulated dance halls etc. We must give regulation a secondary
place. There is something better than this which ought
to be the aim of all recreation leaders, that is, to educate our
young people to want higher standards by interpreting their
own experience to them and by getting them to think in terms
of cause and effect. You can force a moral code on people
from above yet this will change them very little, but by a
system of self-governing clubs with leaders who know how to
lead, we can make real progress in educating people to higher
standards. This is true of athletic games as well as of dances.
<span class="pageno" id="Page_372">372</span>We find, indeed, that it is true of all parts of our Centre work.
Through the stormy paths of club election of officers, I have
seen leaders often guide their young men to an understanding
of honest politics. It is usually easier, it is true, to do <em>for</em>
people, it is easier to “regulate” their lives, but it is not the
way to bring the results we wish. We need education, not
regulation.</p>

<p class="c013">Self-government in the Centres then means not only the
election of officers and the making of a constitution, but a real
management of club and Centre affairs, the opportunity to
take initiative, to make choices and decisions, to take responsibility.
The test of our success in the Centres will always be
how far we are developing the self-shaping instinct. But we
must remember that we have not given self-government by
allowing the members of a club to record their votes. Many
people think a neighborhood association or club is self-governing
if a question is put to them and every one votes upon it.
But if a club is to be really self-governed it must first learn
collective thinking. This is not a process which can be hurried,
it will take time and that time must not be grudged. Collective
thinking must be reverenced as an act of creation. The
time spent in evolving the group spirit is time spent in creating
the dynamic force of our civilization.</p>

<p class="c013">Moreover each Centre should be begun, directed and supported
(as far as possible) by the adult people of a community
acting together for that end. A Centre should not be an
undertaking begun by the School Committee and run by the
School Committee, but each Centre should be organized by
local initiative, to serve local needs, through methods chosen
by the people of a district to suit that particular district.
The ideal School Centre is a Community Centre. A group of
citizens asks for the use of a schoolhouse after school hours,
with heat, light, janitor, and a director to make the necessary
connection between the local undertaking and the city department.
Then that group of citizens is responsible for the Centre:
for things worth while being done in the schoolhouse, and
for the support of the activities undertaken. By the time
such a School Centre is organized by such an association of
<span class="pageno" id="Page_373">373</span>citizens, neighbors will have become acquainted with one
another in a more vital way than before, and they will have
begun to learn how to think and to act together as a neighborhood
unit.</p>

<p class="c013">We are coming to a more general realization of this. In the
municipal buildings in the parks of Chicago, the people are
not given free lectures, free moving pictures, free music, free
dances etc.; they are invited to develop their own activities.
To the Recreation Centres of New York, operated by the Board
of Education, are being added the Community Centres controlled
by local boards of neighbors. In Boston we have under
the School Committee a department of “The Extended Use
of School Buildings,” and the aim is to get the people of each
district to plan, carry out and supervise what civic, educational
and recreational activities they wish in the schoolhouses.</p>

<p class="c013">A Chicago minister said the other day that the south side
of Chicago was the only part of the city where interest in civic
problems and community welfare could be aroused, and this
he said was because of the South Park’s work in field houses,
clubrooms and gymnasiums for the last ten or twelve years.</p>

<p class="c013">When the chairman of the Agricultural Council of Defense
of Virginia asked a citizen of a certain county what he thought
the prospects were of being able to rouse the people in his
county in regard to an increased food production, the prompt
reply was, “On the north side of the county we shall have no
trouble because we have several Community Leagues there,
but on the south side it will be a hard job.”</p>

<p class="c013">The School or Community Centre is the real continuation
school of America, the true university of true democracy.</p>

<hr class="c022"/>

<div class="nf-center-c1">
  <div class="nf-center">
    <div><span class="fss">PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA</span></div>
  </div>
</div>

<hr class="c023"/>
<div class="footnote" id="f1">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r1" class="pginternal">1</a>.  </span>See William McDougall, Social Psychology.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f2">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r2" class="pginternal">2</a>.  </span>Probably by no means a group, but tending in some instances in that
direction, as in the discussion or conference dinners now so common.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f3">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r3" class="pginternal">3</a>.  </span>The old definition of the word social has been a tremendous drag
on politics. Social policies are not policies for the good of the people but
policies created by the people, etc. etc. We read in the work of a continental
sociologist, “When a social will is born in the brain of a man,” but
a social will never is born in the brain of a man.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f4">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r4" class="pginternal">4</a>.  </span>This is essentially the process by which sovereignty is created. Therefore
chapters <a href="#ch_2" class="pginternal">II-VI</a> on The Group Process are the basis of the conception
of sovereignty given in <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a> and of the relation of that conception
to the politics of reconstruction.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f5">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r5" class="pginternal">5</a>.  </span>This is the heart of the latest ethical teaching based on the most
progressive psychology: between two apparently conflicting courses of
action, <i>a</i> and <i>b</i>, <i>a</i> is not to be followed and <i>b</i> suppressed, nor <i>b</i> followed
and <i>a</i> suppressed, nor must a compromise between the two be sought,
but the process must always be one of integration. Our progress is measured
by our ability to proceed from integration to integration.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f6">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r6" class="pginternal">6</a>.  </span>This statement may be misunderstood unless there is borne in mind
at the same time: (1) the necessity for the keenest individual thinking
as the basis of group thinking, and (2) that every man should maintain
his point of view until it has found its place in the group thought, that is,
until he has been neither overruled nor absorbed but integrated.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f7">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r7" class="pginternal">7</a>.  </span>We must not of course confuse the type of unifying spoken of here
(an integration), which is a psychological process, with the “reconciliation
of opposites,” which is a logical process.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f8">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r8" class="pginternal">8</a>.  </span>I am sometimes told that mine is a counsel of perfection only to
be realized in the millenium, but we cannot take even the first step until
we have chosen our path.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f9">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r9" class="pginternal">9</a>.  </span>The break in the English Cabinet in 1915, which led to the coalition
Cabinet, came when both Kitchener and Churchill tried to substitute
individual for group action.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f10">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r10" class="pginternal">10</a>.  </span>Free speech is not an “individual” right; society needs every man’s
difference.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f11">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r11" class="pginternal">11</a>.  </span>It has been overemphasized in two ways: first, many of the writers
on imitation ignore the fact that the other law of association, that of
interpenetrating, is also in operation in our social life, as well as the fact
that it has always been the fundamental law of existence; secondly, they
speak as if it were <em>necessary</em> for human beings to be under the law of
imitation, not that it is merely a stage in our development.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f12">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r12" class="pginternal">12</a>.  </span>This is the alpha and omega of philosophical teaching: Heraclitus
said, “Nature desires eagerly opposites and out of them it completes
its harmony, not out of similars.” And James, twenty-four hundred
years later, has given his testimony that the process of life is to
“compenetrate.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f13">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r13" class="pginternal">13</a>.  </span>Also the group-units of early societies are studied to the exclusion
of group-units within modern complex society.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f14">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r14" class="pginternal">14</a>.  </span>Even some of our most advanced thinking, which repudiates the
like-minded theory and takes pains to prove that imitation is not an
instinct, nevertheless falls into some of the errors implicit in the imitation
theory.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f15">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r15" class="pginternal">15</a>.  </span>When we come in <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a> to consider the group process in relation
to certain political methods now being proposed, we shall find that part
of the present disagreement of opinion is verbal. I therefore give here a
list of words which can be used to describe the genuine social process and
a list which gives exactly the wrong idea of it. Good words: integrate,
interpenetrate, interpermeate, compenetrate, compound, harmonize, correlate,
coördinate, interweave, reciprocally relate or adapt or adjust, etc.
Bad words: fuse, melt, amalgamate, assimilate, weld, dissolve, absorb,
reconcile (if used in Hegelian sense), etc.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f16">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r16" class="pginternal">16</a>.  </span>This does not, however, put us with those biologists who make conscience
a “gregarious instinct” and—would seem to be willing to keep
it there. This is the insidious herd fallacy which crops up constantly in
every kind of place. We may to-day partake largely of the nature of
the herd, our conscience may be to some extent a herd conscience, but
such is not the end of man for it is not the true nature of man—man
does not find his expression in the herd.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f17">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r17" class="pginternal">17</a>.  </span>To a misunderstanding of this point are due some of the fallacies
of the political pluralists (see <a href="#ch_32" class="pginternal">ch. XXXII</a>).</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f18">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r18" class="pginternal">18</a>.  </span>See p. <a href="#Page_45" class="pginternal">45</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f19">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r19" class="pginternal">19</a>.  </span>This view of purpose is not necessarily antagonistic to the “interest”
school of sociology, but we may perhaps look forward to a new and deeper
analysis of self-interest. And the view here put forward is not incompatible
with the “objective” theory of association (see <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a>) nor
with the teleological school of jurisprudence (see <a href="#ch_15" class="pginternal">ch. XV</a>), it merely
emphasizes another point of view—a point of view which tends to
synthesize the “subjective” and “objective” theories of law. But those
jurists who say that a group is governed by its purpose and leave the
matter there are making a thing-in-itself of the purpose; we are governed
by the purpose, yes, but we are all the time evolving the purpose.
Modern jurists wish a dynamic theory of law—only such a conception
of purpose as is revealed by group psychology will give value to a
teleological school of jurisprudence.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f20">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r20" class="pginternal">20</a>.  </span>In a relation even of two I am not faithful to the other person but
to my conception of the relation in the whole. Loyalty is always to the
group idea not to the group-personnel. This must change our idea of
patriotism.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f21">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r21" class="pginternal">21</a>.  </span>See<a href="#ch_15" class="pginternal"> ch. XV</a>, “From Contract to Community.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f22">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r22" class="pginternal">22</a>.  </span>This is the principle of the vote in a democracy (see <a href="#ch_21" class="pginternal">ch. XXI</a>). This
must not, however, be confused with the old Hegelianism (see <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a>
on “Sovereignty”).</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f23">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r23" class="pginternal">23</a>.  </span>In art this is what impressionism has meant. In the era before impressionism
art was in a static phase, that is, artists were working at
fixed relations. The “balance” of modern artists does not suggest fixedness,
but relation subject directly to the laws of the whole.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f24">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r24" class="pginternal">24</a>.  </span>I speak of it as later because the biological analogy was different
from the organism of mediæval doctrine.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f25">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r25" class="pginternal">25</a>.  </span>See <a href="#ch_30" class="pginternal">ch. XXX</a>, “Political Pluralism and Functionalism.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f26">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r26" class="pginternal">26</a>.  </span>See p. <a href="#Page_66" class="pginternal">66</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f27">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r27" class="pginternal">27</a>.  </span>See <a href="#ch_21" class="pginternal">ch. XXI</a>. I have been told that the distinction between the
organic and the psychic theory of society is merely academic. But no
one should frame amendments on the initiative and referendum without
this distinction; no one without it can judge wisely the various schemes
now being proposed for occupational representation—something every
one of us will have soon to do.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f28">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r28" class="pginternal">28</a>.  </span>It must be remembered, however, that these welfare arrangements
are often accompanied by truly social motives, and experiments looking
towards a more democratic organization of industries.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f29">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r29" class="pginternal">29</a>.  </span>A good example of the crowd fallacy is the syndicalist theory that
the vote should be taken in a meeting of strikers not by ballot but by
acclamation or show of hands. The idea is that in an open meeting enthusiasm
passes from one to another and that, therefore, you can thus
get the collective will which you could not get by every man voting one
by one.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f30">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r30" class="pginternal">30</a>.  </span>It is unfortunate to be obliged to treat this important point with such
brevity.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f31">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r31" class="pginternal">31</a>.  </span>The expressions “mutual aid” and “animal coöperation” have, however,
a slightly misleading connotation; mutual adaptation, coördinated
activities, come nearer the truth. It is confusing to take the words and
phrases we use of men in the conscious stage and transfer them to the
world of animals in the unconscious stage.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f32">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r32" class="pginternal">32</a>.  </span>It is because of this profound truth that we must always respect
conservatism.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f33">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r33" class="pginternal">33</a>.  </span>The claim of the individual to a larger share in government and to
a share in the control of industry will be taken up in later chapters.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f34">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r34" class="pginternal">34</a>.  </span>“<span lang="fr">Ce que Nait</span>” is the title of a volume of poems by Arcos, and that
which is being born through all the activity of our common life is God.
It is of the “<span lang="fr">naissance</span>” and “<span lang="fr">croissance</span>” of God that Arcos loves to sing.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f35">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r35" class="pginternal">35</a>.  </span>I have said that we gain creative power through the group. Those
who feel enthralled by material conditions, and to whom it seems an
irony to be told that they are “creators,” will demand something more
specific. Concrete methods of group organization are given in <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f36">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r36" class="pginternal">36</a>.  </span>It is interesting to notice that Miss Lathrop’s whole conception of
the Children’s Bureau is that it is to fit children into the life of the community.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f37">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r37" class="pginternal">37</a>.  </span>See <a href="#appendix" class="pginternal">Appendix</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f38">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r38" class="pginternal">38</a>.  </span>The new farm industrial system which is to replace Sing Sing is
founded largely on the community idea.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f39">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r39" class="pginternal">39</a>.  </span>France, Norway, Switzerland. In Norway it is said that more
then three-quarters of the cases which come before the conciliation courts
are settled without law suits.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f40">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r40" class="pginternal">40</a>.  </span>“Experiences in Coöperative Competition,” by W. V. Spaulding.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f41">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r41" class="pginternal">41</a>.  </span>The great value of Robert Valentine’s work consisted in his recognition
of this fact.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f42">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r42" class="pginternal">42</a>.  </span>I am speaking in general. It is true that the history of cases settled
by arbitration reveals many in which the “umpire” has insisted that
negotiations continue until the real coincident interest of both sides
should be discovered.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f43">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r43" class="pginternal">43</a>.  </span>It has long been known in England and America but recently it
has been spreading rapidly.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f44">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r44" class="pginternal">44</a>.  </span>Recently abandoned.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f45">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r45" class="pginternal">45</a>.  </span>The three firms which have carried co-management furthest are
the Printz-Biederman Co. of Cleveland, the Wm. Filene’s Sons Co. of
Boston and the U. S. Cartridge Co. of Lowell. See Report of Committee
on Vocational Guidance, Fourth Annual Convention of National Association
of Corporation Schools, by Henry C. Metcalf.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f46">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r46" class="pginternal">46</a>.  </span>We have a number of minor instances of the recognition of the group
principle in industry. An interesting example is the shop piece-work in
the Cadbury works, where the wages are calculated on the output of a
whole work-room, and thus every one in the room has to suffer for the
laziness of one. (See “Experiments in Industrial Organization,” by
Edward Cadbury.)</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f47">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r47" class="pginternal">47</a>.  </span>I have not spoken of the coöperative buying and selling movement
because by the name alone it is obvious how well it illustrates my point,
and also because it is so well known to every one.</p>

<p class="c013">Another evidence of the spreading of the community idea is the wide acceptance
of the right of the community to value created by the community.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f48">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r48" class="pginternal">48</a>.  </span>Col. Law Rev. 8, 610.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f49">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r49" class="pginternal">49</a>.  </span>Pound, Outlines of Lectures on Jurisprudence, p. 20. The influence
of sociology on law has here been very marked. For further discussion
of a teleological jurisprudence, see <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f50">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r50" class="pginternal">50</a>.  </span>Duguit, <a id="tn123"/><span lang="fr">L’État, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive</span>, 398–409, from
Jellinek, <span lang="de">System der subjektiren öffentlichen Rechte</span>, 193.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f51">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r51" class="pginternal">51</a>.  </span>The whole legal history of associations and the development of
association law throws much light on the growth of the community idea.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f52">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r52" class="pginternal">52</a>.  </span>Also, I recognize, because his “<i lang="fr">droit objectif</i>” based on social solidarity
tends to sweep away contract. It is interesting to notice that contract
is being attacked from more than one point of view. The bearing
of all this on politics will be seen later, especially in <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a>,
“Political Pluralism and Sovereignty.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f53">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r53" class="pginternal">53</a>.  </span>Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Col. Law Rev. 8, 616.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f54">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r54" class="pginternal">54</a>.  </span>Statutes limiting the hours of labor were held unconstitutional,
railway corporations were held not to be required to furnish discharged
employees with a cause for dismissal, etc.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f55">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r55" class="pginternal">55</a>.  </span>Harlan, J., in Mugler <i>v.</i> Kansas, 123 U. S. 623. Taken from Roscoe
Pound, Liberty of Contract, Yale Law Journal, 18, 468.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f56">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r56" class="pginternal">56</a>.  </span>The End of Law as Developed in Legal Rules and Doctrine, Harv.
Law Rev. 27, 195–234.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f57">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r57" class="pginternal">57</a>.  </span>“Statutes ... have taken many features of the subject out of the
domain of agreement and the tendency of judicial decision has been in
effect to attach rights and liabilities to the relation of insurer and insured
and thus to remove insurance from the category of contract.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f58">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r58" class="pginternal">58</a>.  </span>The old idea of “contributory negligence” is seen in the following
decision: “We must remember that the injury complained of is due to
the negligence of a fellow workman, for which the master is responsible
neither in law nor morals.” Durkin <i>v.</i> Coal Co. 171, Pa. St. 193, 205.
Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Yale Law Journal, 18, 467.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f59">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r59" class="pginternal">59</a>.  </span>This is the “new natural law” of which Mr. Pound speaks as “the
revival of the idealist interpretation which is the enduring possession of
philosophical jurisprudence.” Formerly, we are told, “equity imposed
moral limitations. The law to-day is beginning to impose social limitations.”
Harv. Law Rev. 27, 227.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f60">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r60" class="pginternal">60</a>.  </span>“The Constitutional Opinions of Justice Holmes,” by Felix Frankfurter,
Harv. Law Rev. 29, 683–702.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f61">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r61" class="pginternal">61</a>.  </span>Quoted by Roscoe Pound in Harv. Law Rev. 25, 505.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f62">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r62" class="pginternal">62</a>.  </span>It has been proposed that we should have trained business men on
the benches of our supreme courts as well as lawyers. I should think it
would be better for our lawyers to be so conversant with social facts that
this need not be necessary.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f63">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r63" class="pginternal">63</a>.  </span>See <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a> for the theory of “objective rights” now held by many
as the basis of the new state.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f64">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r64" class="pginternal">64</a>.  </span>This is a hoary quarrel. From the beginning of our government it
was seen that the equal rights doctrine was a sword which could cut
both ways. Both Federalists and Republicans believed in equal rights:
the Federalists, therefore, wanted to protect individuals with a strong
government; the Republicans wanted a weak government so that individuals
could be let alone in the exercise of their equal rights.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f65">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r65" class="pginternal">65</a>.  </span>This view of democracy was well satirized by some one, I think Lord
Morley, who said, “I do not care who does the voting as long as I do the
counting.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f66">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r66" class="pginternal">66</a>.  </span>Proportional representation is interesting to the view put forward
in this book because it is a method to bring out all the differences.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f67">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r67" class="pginternal">67</a>.  </span>Arcos, Romains and Vildrac are the chief of these. Romains, who
has written “<span lang="fr">La Vie Unanime</span>,” is the most interesting for our present
purpose, for his togetherness is so plainly that of the herd:</p>

<div class="lg-container-b c021">
  <div class="linegroup">
    <div class="group">
      <div class="line">... “<span lang="fr">quelle joie</span></div>
      <div class="line in6"><span lang="fr">De fondre dans ton corps [le ville] immense</span></div>
      <div class="line in6"><span lang="fr">oú l’on a chaud!</span>”</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

<p class="c019">Here is our old friend, the wild ox, in the mask of the most civilized (perhaps)
portion of our most civilised (perhaps) nation. Again</p>

<div class="lg-container-b c021">
  <div class="linegroup">
    <div class="group">
      <div class="line">“<span lang="fr">Nous sommes indistincts: chacun de nous est mort;</span></div>
      <div class="line"><span lang="fr">Et la vie unanime est notre sépulture.</span>”</div>
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f68">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r68" class="pginternal">68</a>.  </span>Other results of the increased reading of newspapers and magazines
are that large questions are driving out trivial interests (I find this very
marked in the country), and the enormous amount of publicity now
given everything finds a channel to the public through the press. The
reports of commissions, like the Industrial Relations Commission, the
surveys, like the Pittsburgh Survey, the reports of foundations, like
the Russell Sage, the reports of the rapidly increasing bureaus of research,
like the New York Municipal Bureau, all find their way to us through
the columns of our daily or weekly or monthly. Therefore we have more
material on which to found individual thinking.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f69">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r69" class="pginternal">69</a>.  </span>Also the development of the relation of individualistic theories to
the rise and decline of the doctrines regarding the national state.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f70">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r70" class="pginternal">70</a>.  </span>I do not wish, however, to minimize the truly democratic nature of
our local institutions.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f71">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r71" class="pginternal">71</a>.  </span>While it is true that there were undemocratic elements in the mental
equipment and psychological bent of our forefathers, and it is these which
I have emphasized because from them came our immediate development,
it is equally true that there were also sound democratic elements to which
we can trace our present ideas of democracy. Such tracing even in briefest
form there is not space for here.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f72">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r72" class="pginternal">72</a>.  </span>It became at once evident that a government whose chief function
was to see that individual rights, property rights, state rights, were not
invaded, was hardly adequate to unite our colonies with all their separatist
instincts, or to meet the needs of a rapidly developing continent. Our
national government at once adopted a constructive policy. Guided by
Hamilton it assumed constructive powers authority for which could be
found in the constitution only by a most liberal construction of its terms.
When Jefferson, an antinationalist, acquired Louisiana in 1803, it seemed
plain that no such restricted national government as was at first conceived
could possibly work.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f73">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r73" class="pginternal">73</a>.  </span>These English writers to whom our debt is so large are not responsible
for this, but their misinterpreters.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f74">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r74" class="pginternal">74</a>.  </span>With the executive and legislative limited in their powers, the decisions
of the courts gradually came, especially as they developed constructive
powers, to be a body of law which guided the American people.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f75">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r75" class="pginternal">75</a>.  </span>For ways of doing this see <a href="#pt_3" class="pginternal">Part III</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f76">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r76" class="pginternal">76</a>.  </span>We used to think frequent elections democratic. Now we know that
they mean simply an increase of party influence and a decrease of official
responsibility.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f77">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r77" class="pginternal">77</a>.  </span>See <a href="#ch_30" class="pginternal">ch. XXX</a>, “Political Pluralism and Functionalism.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f78">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r78" class="pginternal">78</a>.  </span><i lang="fr">Laissez-faire</i> was popular when there were great numbers of individual
producers. When the large-scale business system made wage-earners
of these, there was the beginning of the break-down of <i lang="fr">laissez-faire</i>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f79">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r79" class="pginternal">79</a>.  </span>Besides the more obvious one of “universal suffrage.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f80">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r80" class="pginternal">80</a>.  </span>This movement to form societies based on our occupations is of
course, although usually unconscious, part of the whole syndicalist movement,
and as such has real advantages which will be taken up later.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f81">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r81" class="pginternal">81</a>.  </span>Since April, 1917, with the rapidly extending use of the schoolhouse
as a centre for war services, these numbers have probably greatly increased.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f82">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r82" class="pginternal">82</a>.  </span>See Appendix, <a href="#ch_36" class="pginternal">The Training for the New Democracy</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f83">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r83" class="pginternal">83</a>.  </span>That it is also in many instances leading the way to real community
organization makes it one of the most valuable movements of our time.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f84">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r84" class="pginternal">84</a>.  </span>Public opinion in a true democracy is a potential will. Therefore
for practical purposes they are identical and I use them synonymously.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f85">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r85" class="pginternal">85</a>.  </span>Our federal system of checks and balances thwarted the will of the
people. The party system thwarted the will of the people. Our state
governments were never designed to get at the will of the people.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f86">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r86" class="pginternal">86</a>.  </span>The war has shown us that our national agricultural program can
best be done on a coöperative neighborhood basis: through the establishment
of community agricultural conferences, community labor, seed and
implement exchanges, community canning centres, community markets,
etc.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f87">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r87" class="pginternal">87</a>.  </span>I do not mean to imply that I think it is easy to learn how to identify
ourselves with our city, especially for those who live in large cities.
The men of a small town know that if they have a new town-hall they
will have to pay for it. In a large city men ask for a ward building because
they will not have to pay for it, they think. It is all this which
neighborhood organization and the integration of neighborhoods, of
which I shall speak later, must remedy.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f88">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r88" class="pginternal">88</a>.  </span>The plan of Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur Phillips for community organization
and for the connection with it of expert service is too comprehensive to
describe here, but based as it is on their actual experience, and planning
as it does for the training of whole neighborhoods and the arousing of
them to responsibility and action, it should be studied by every one, for
such plans are, I believe, the best signs we have that democracy is yet
possible for America.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f89">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r89" class="pginternal">89</a>.  </span>How much we are all indebted to the settlements as the pioneer
neighborhood movement I do not stop to consider here.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f90">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r90" class="pginternal">90</a>.  </span>This point will be taken up in <a href="#ch_33" class="pginternal">ch. XXXIII</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f91">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r91" class="pginternal">91</a>.  </span>Or perhaps the Senate might represent the occupational group (see
<a href="#ch_33" class="pginternal">ch. XXXIII</a>). Or perhaps the experts mentioned above might be representatives
from occupational groups.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f92">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r92" class="pginternal">92</a>.  </span>In North Carolina the recently organized State Bureau of Community
Service—made up of the administrators of the Department of
Agriculture, the Board of Health, the Normal and Industrial College
and the Farmers’ Union, with the State Superintendent of Public Instruction
as its central executive—is making its immediate work the development
of local community organization which shall be directly articulated
with a unified state organization.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f93">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r93" class="pginternal">93</a>.  </span>The Community Council, however, is not to duplicate other organizations
but first to coördinate all existing agencies before planning new
activities.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f94">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r94" class="pginternal">94</a>.  </span>And spontaneously many towns and villages turned to the schoolhouse
as the natural centre of its war services.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f95">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r95" class="pginternal">95</a>.  </span>For the moment I ignore the occupational group to be considered
later.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f96">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r96" class="pginternal">96</a>.  </span>I have taken this account from the official report. I have been told
by New York people that these commissions have shown few signs of
life. This does not, however, seem to me to detract from the value of
the plan as a suggestion, or as indication of what is seen to be advisable
if not yet wholly practicable. The New York charter provides for Local
Improvement Boards as connecting links with the central government,
but these I am told have shown no life whatever.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f97">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r97" class="pginternal">97</a>.  </span>Léon Duguit, Graham Wallis, Arthur Christensen, Norman Angell,
etc.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f98">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r98" class="pginternal">98</a>.  </span>The fatal flaw of guild socialism is this separation of economics
and politics. First, the interests of citizenship and guild-membership are
not distinct; secondly, in any proper system of occupational representation
every one should be included—vocational representation should
not be trade representation; third, as long as you call the affairs of the
guilds “material,” and say that the politics of the state should be purified
of financial interests, you burn every bridge which might make a unity
of financial interests and sound state policy. Guild socialism, however,
because it is a carefully worked out plan for the control of industry by
those who take part in it, is one of the most well worth considering of
the proposals at present before us.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f99">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r99" class="pginternal">99</a>.  </span>See G. D. H. Cole, “The World of Labor,” for the relation of trade
unionism to guild socialism.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f100">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r100" class="pginternal">100</a>.  </span>See especially “Churches in the Modern State” and “Studies in
Political Thought from Gerson to Grotius.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f101">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r101" class="pginternal">101</a>.  </span>See also Mr. Laski’s articles: “The Personality of Associations,”
Harv. Law Rev. 29, 404–426, and “Early History of the Corporation
in England,” Harv. Law Rev.: 30, 561–588. This is the kind of work
which is breaking the way for a new conception of politics.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f102">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r102" class="pginternal">102</a>.  </span>It must be understood that all I say does not apply to all the pluralists.
For the sake of brevity I consider them as a school although they
differ widely. Moreover, for convenience I am using the word pluralist
roughly and in a sense inaccurately to include all those who are advocating
a multiple group organization as the basis of a new state. Most of these
agree in making the group rather than the individual the unit of politics,
in their support of group “rights,” the “consent” of the group, the “balance”
of groups, and in their belief that “rights” should be based on
function. But syndicalists and guild socialists are not strictly pluralists
since they build up a system based on the occupational group; yet the
name is not wholly inapplicable, for, since the guild socialists base their
state on balancing groups, that state cannot be called a unified state.
It is too early yet to speak of this school with entire accuracy, and in fact
there is no “school.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f103">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r103" class="pginternal">103</a>.  </span>From this was taken, Gierke tells us, modern German “fellowship.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f104">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r104" class="pginternal">104</a>.  </span>And the individual was certainly as prominent in medieval theory
as the community of individuals, a fact which the vigorous corporate life
of the Middle Ages may lead us to forget.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f105">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r105" class="pginternal">105</a>.  </span>See writings of Ramiro de Maeztu in New Age and his book mentioned
above.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f106">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r106" class="pginternal">106</a>.  </span>See “<span lang="fr">Traité de Droit Constitutionnel</span>” and “<span lang="fr">Études de Droit Public</span>”:
I, <span lang="fr">L’État, Le Droit Objectif et La Loi Positive</span>; II, <span lang="fr">L’État, Les Gouvernants
and Les Agents</span>.</p>

<p class="c013">As in French <i lang="fr">droit</i> may be either law or <em>a</em> <a id="tn273"/>right, Duguit, in order to
distinguish between these meanings, follows the German distinction of
<i lang="de">objektives Recht</i> and <i lang="de">subjektives Recht</i>, and speaks of <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i> and <i lang="fr">le
droit subjectif</i>, thus meaning by <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i> merely law. But because
he at the same time writes of power as resting on function in contradistinction
to the classical theory of the abstract “rights” of man,
rights apart from law and only declared by law, political writers sometimes
speak of Duguit’s “objective” theory of law, as opposed to a
“subjective” theory of law, when jurists would tell us that law <em>is</em> objective,
and that subjective right is always merely <em>a</em> right, my right.
This matter of terminology must be made much clearer than it is at
present.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f107">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r107" class="pginternal">107</a>.  </span>Although how far Duguit had in mind merely the solidarity of
French and Roman law has been questioned.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f108">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r108" class="pginternal">108</a>.  </span>I have just read in a work on sociology, “Men surrender their individual
wills to the collective will.” No, the true social process is not
when they <em>surrender</em> but when they <em>contribute</em> their wills to the collective
will. See <a href="#ch_2" class="pginternal">chs. II-VI</a>, “The Group Process.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f109">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r109" class="pginternal">109</a>.  </span>See p. <a href="#Page_130" class="pginternal">130</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f110">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r110" class="pginternal">110</a>.  </span>De Maeztu tells us, “Rights do not arise from personality. This
idea is mystic and unnecessary. Rights arise primarily from the relation
of the associated with the thing which associates them....”
Authority, Liberty, and Function, p. 250.</p>

<p class="c013">Mr. Barker substitutes purpose for personality and will as the unifying
bond of associations, and says that we thus get rid of “murder in
the air” when it is a question of the “competition of ideas, not of real
collective personalities.” (See “The Discredited State,” in <cite>The Political
Quarterly</cite>, February, 1915.) This seems a curiously anthropomorphic,
so to speak, idea of personality for a twentieth-century writer. The
article is, however, an interesting and valuable one.</p>

<p class="c013">See also Pollock and Maitland, History of English Law, I, 472.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f111">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r111" class="pginternal">111</a>.  </span>See “Underlying Principles of Legislation.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f112">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r112" class="pginternal">112</a>.  </span>The teleological school of sociology is interesting just here. While
it marked a long advance on older theories, the true place of selection
of ends is to-day more clearly seen. We were told: “Men have wants,
therefore they come together to seek means to satisfy those wants.”
When do men “come together”? When were they ever separated? But
it is not necessary to push this further.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f113">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r113" class="pginternal">113</a>.  </span>I have tried not to jump the track from legal right to ethical right
but occasionally one can speak of them together, if it is understood that
one is not thereby merging them.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f114">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r114" class="pginternal">114</a>.  </span>The old consent theory assumes that some make the laws and others
obey them. In the true democracy we shall obey the laws we have
ourselves made. To find the methods by which we can be approaching
the true democracy is now our task; we can never rest satisfied with
“consent.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f115">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r115" class="pginternal">115</a>.  </span>Although I do not agree with the form individualism takes in his
doctrine.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f116">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r116" class="pginternal">116</a>.  </span>Some of the pluralists are concerned, I recognize, with the fact rather
than the right of sovereignty.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f117">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r117" class="pginternal">117</a>.  </span>The trouble with the pluralists is that their emphasis is not on the
fact that the group creates its own personality, but on the fact that the
state does <em>not</em> create it. When they change this emphasis, their thinking
will be unchained, I believe, and leap ahead to the constructive work
which we eagerly await and expect from them.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f118">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r118" class="pginternal">118</a>.  </span>It is also necessary to an understanding of the new international
law. See <a href="#ch_35" class="pginternal">ch. XXXV</a>, “The World State.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f119">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r119" class="pginternal">119</a>.  </span>No one has yet given us a satisfactory account of the history of
the notion of sovereignty: just how and in what degree it has been affected
by history, by philosophy, by jurisprudence, etc., and how all these have
interacted. We have not only to disentangle many strands to trace each
to its source, but we have, moreover, just not to disentangle them, but
to understand the constant interweaving of all. To watch the interplay
of legal theory and political philosophy from the Middle Ages down to
the present day is one of the most interesting parts of our reading, but
perhaps nowhere is it more fruitful than in the idea of sovereignty. We
see the corporation long ignored and the idea of legal partnership influencing
the development of the social contract theory, which in its turn
reacted on legal theory. We find the juristic conception of group personality,
clearly seen as early as Althusius (1557–1638), and revived and
expanded by Gierke, influencing the whole German school of “group
sociologists.” But to-day are not many of us agreed that however interesting
such historical tracing, our present notion of sovereignty must
rest on what we learn from group psychology?</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f120">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r120" class="pginternal">120</a>.  </span>The French syndicalists avowedly do not want democracy because
it “mixes the classes,” because, as they say, interests and aims mingle
in one great mass in which all true significance is lost.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f121">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r121" class="pginternal">121</a>.  </span>See p. <a href="#Page_184" class="pginternal">184</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f122">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r122" class="pginternal">122</a>.  </span>This is the basis of Duguit’s international law—the place of a state
in an international league is to be determined directly by services rendered.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f123">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r123" class="pginternal">123</a>.  </span>Quoted by Duguit.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f124">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r124" class="pginternal">124</a>.  </span>It must be remembered, however, that while in the Civil War we
definitely gave up the compact theory held by us since the Mayflower
compact, yet we did not adopt the organism theory. The federal state
we have tried and are trying to work out in America is based on the principles
of psychic unity described in <a href="#ch_10" class="pginternal">chapter X</a>. The giving up of the
“consent” theory does not bring us necessarily to the organic theory of
society.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f125">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r125" class="pginternal">125</a>.  </span>Duguit says that the United States confers the rights of a state on
a territory. No, it recognizes that which already exists.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f126">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r126" class="pginternal">126</a>.  </span>“The word ‘and’ trails along after every sentence. Something
always escapes.... The pluralistic world is thus more like a federal
republic than like an empire or a kingdom.” “A Pluralistic Universe,”
321–322.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f127">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r127" class="pginternal">127</a>.  </span>When they say that the passion for unity is the urge for a dominant
One, they think of the dominant One as outside.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f128">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r128" class="pginternal">128</a>.  </span>One of the pluralists says, “I cannot see that ... sovereignty is
the unique property of any one association.” No, not sovereignty over
“others,” but sovereignty always belongs to any genuine group; as
groups join to form another real group, the sovereignty of the more inclusive
group is evolved—that is the only kind of state sovereignty which
we can recognize as legitimate. (See <a href="#ch_29" class="pginternal">ch. XXIX</a> on “Political Pluralism
and Sovereignty.”)</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f129">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r129" class="pginternal">129</a>.  </span>See <a href="#ch_15" class="pginternal">ch. XV</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f130">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r130" class="pginternal">130</a>.  </span>Mr. Laski is an exception to many writers on “consent.” When
he speaks of consent he is referring only to the actual facts of to-day.
Denying the sovereignty postulated by the lawyers (he says you can never
find in a community any one will which is certain of obedience), he shows
that as a matter of fact the state sovereignty we have now rests on consent.
I do not wish to confuse the issue between facts of the present and
hopes for the future, but I wish to make a distinction between the “sovereignty”
of the present end the sovereignty which I hope we can grow.
This distinction is implicit in Mr. Laski’s book, but it is lacking in much
of the writing on the “consent of the governed.”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f131">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r131" class="pginternal">131</a>.  </span>Wherever you have the social contract theory in any form, and
assent as the foundation of power, there is no social process going on;
the state is an arbitrary creation of men. Group organization to-day
must give up any taint whatever of the social contract and rest squarely
and fully on its legitimate psychological basis.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f132">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r132" class="pginternal">132</a>.  </span>This is perhaps a remnant of the nineteenth-century myth that competition
is the mode of progress.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f133">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r133" class="pginternal">133</a>.  </span>See <a href="#Page_39" class="pginternal">p. 39</a>, <a href="#f15" class="pginternal">note</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f134">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r134" class="pginternal">134</a>.  </span>Mr. Laski, I think.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f135">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r135" class="pginternal">135</a>.  </span>It does not matter in the terms of which branch of study you express
it—philosophy, sociology, or political science—it is always the same
problem.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f136">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r136" class="pginternal">136</a>.  </span>See pp. <a href="#Page_199" class="pginternal">199–201</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f137">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r137" class="pginternal">137</a>.  </span>Some writers talk of trade representation vs. party organization as
if in the trade group you are rid of party. Have they studied the politics
of trade unionism? In neither the trade group nor the neighborhood
group do you automatically get rid of the party spirit. That will be a
slow growth indeed.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f138">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r138" class="pginternal">138</a>.  </span>Yet perhaps the trade-union has been one of the truest groups, one
of the most effective teachers of genuine group lessons which we have yet
seen. Increased wages, improved conditions, are always for the group.
The trade-unionist feels group-wants; he seeks to satisfy these through
group action. Moreover the terms of a collective bargain cannot be
enforced without a certain amount of group solidarity. In strikes workmen
often sacrifice their own interests for what will benefit the union:
the individual—I may prefer his present wages to the privations of a
strike; the group-I wants to raise the wages of the whole union.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f139">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r139" class="pginternal">139</a>.  </span>I have not in this brief statement distinguished between government
“ownership,” “control,” “regulation,” etc. See “War-Time Control of
Industry” by Howard L. Gray.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f140">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r140" class="pginternal">140</a>.  </span>“Representative Government in British Industry” by J. A. Hobson,
in <cite>New Republic</cite>, September 1, 1917.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f141">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r141" class="pginternal">141</a>.  </span>See p. <a href="#Page_120" class="pginternal">120</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f142">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r142" class="pginternal">142</a>.  </span>Following the precedent of England which provided, under the
Munitions of War act and other legislation, machinery (joint boards
representing employers and employed) for the prevention and adjustment
of labor disputes.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f143">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r143" class="pginternal">143</a>.  </span>Christensen, “Politics and Crowd Morality,” p. 238.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f144">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r144" class="pginternal">144</a>.  </span>See pp. <a href="#Page_58" class="pginternal">58–59</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f145">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r145" class="pginternal">145</a>.  </span>It has usually been supposed that wars have been the all-important
element in consolidating nations; I do not want to disregard this element,
I want only to warn against its over emphasis. Moreover, the way in
which wars have had a real and permanent influence in the consolidation
of nations is by the pressure which they have exerted upon them in showing
them that efficiency is obtained by the closest coöperation and coördination
of all our activities, by a high degree of internal organization.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f146">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r146" class="pginternal">146</a>.  </span>The western states feel that they are training members of society
and not individuals and that is why it seems proper to them to take
public money to found state universities.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f147">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r147" class="pginternal">147</a>.  </span>A little girl I know said, “Mother, if women get the vote, shall I
<em>have</em> to be President?”</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f148">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r148" class="pginternal">148</a>  </span>See pp. <a href="#Page_208" class="pginternal">208–212</a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="footnote" id="f149">
<p class="c013"><span class="label"><a href="#r149" class="pginternal">149</a>.  </span>Also men have less opportunity for discussion at work than formerly.</p>
</div>