<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3-1-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>XXIX POLITICAL PLURALISM AND SOVEREIGNTY</h3>
			<p>WHAT does group psychology teach us, as far as we at present understand it, in regard to sovereignty? How does the group get its power? By each one giving up his sovereignty? Never. By someone from outside presenting it with authority? No, although that is the basis of much of our older legal theory. Real authority inheres in a genuine whole. The individual is sovereign over himself as far as he unifies the heterogeneous elements of his nature. Two people are sovereign over themselves as far as they are capable of creating one out of two. A group is sovereign over itself as far as it is capable of creating one out of several or many. A state is sovereign only as it has the power of creating one in which all are. Sovereignty is the power engendered by a complete interdependence becoming conscious of itself. Sovereignty is the imperative of a true collective will. It is not something academic, it is produced by actual living with others⁠—we learn it only through group life. By the subtle process of interpenetration a collective sovereignty is evolved from a distributed sovereignty. Just so can and must, by the law of their being, groups unite to form larger groups, these larger groups to form a world-group.</p>
			<p>I have said that many of the pluralists are opposed to the monistic state because they do not see that a collective and distributive sovereignty can exist together. They talk of the Many and the One without analyzing the process by which the Many and the One are creating <span class="pageno" id="Page_272">272</span>each other. We now see that the problem of the compounding of consciousness, of the One and the Many, need not be left either to an intellectualistic or to an intuitive metaphysics. It is to be solved through a laboratory study of group psychology. When we have that, we shall not have to argue any more about the One and the Many: we shall actually see the Many and the One emerging at the same time; we can then work out the laws of the relation of the One (the state) to the Many (the individual), and of the Many (the individual) to the One (the state), not as a metaphysical question but on a scientific basis. And the process of the Many becoming One is the process by which sovereignty is created. Our conceptions of sovereignty can no longer rest on mere abstractions, theory, speculative thought. How absurdly inadequate such processes are to explain the living, interweaving web of humanity. The question of sovereignty concerns the organization of men (which obviously must be fitted to their nature), hence it finds its answer through the psychological analysis of man.</p>
			<p>The seeking of the organs of society which are the immediate source of legal sanctions, the seeking of the ultimate source of political control⁠—these are the quests of jurists and political philosophers. To their search must be added a study of the process by which a genuine sovereignty is created. The political pluralists are reacting against the sovereignty which our legal theory postulates, for they see that there is no such thing actually, but if sovereignty is at present a legal fiction, the matter need not rest there⁠—we must seek to find how a genuine social and political control can be produced. The understanding of self-government, of democracy, is bound up with the conception of sovereignty as a psychological process.</p>
			<p><span class="pageno" id="Page_273">273</span>The idea of sovereignty held by guild socialists<a id="r105"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f105"><sup>[105]</sup></a> is based largely on the so-called “objective” theory of <i lang="fr">le droit</i> expounded by M. Léon Duguit of Bordeaux. This theory is accepted as the “juridical basis” of a new state, what some call the functionarist state.<a id="r106"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f106"><sup>[106]</sup></a> Man, Duguit tells us, has no rights as man, but only as a member of the social order. His rights are based on the fact of social interdependence⁠—on his relations and consequent obligations. In fact he has no rights, but duties and powers. All power and all obligation is found in “social solidarity,” in a constantly evolving social solidarity.<a id="r107"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f107"><sup>[107]</sup></a></p>
			<p>The elaboration of this theory is Duguit’s large contribution to political thought. His <i lang="fr">droit</i> is a dynamic law⁠—it can never be captured and fixed. The essential weakness of his doctrine is that he denies the possibility of a collective will, which means that he ignores the psychology of the social process. He and his followers reject the notion of a collective will as “<i lang="fr">concept de l’esprit <span class="pageno" id="Page_274">274</span>dénué de toute réalité positive</i>.” If this is their idea of a collective will, they are right to reject it. I ask for its acceptance only so far as it can be proved to have positive reality. There is only one way in the world by which you can ever know whether there is a collective will, and that is by actually trying to make one; you need not discuss a collective will as a theory. If experiment proves to us that we cannot have a collective will, we must accept the verdict. Duguit thinks that when we talk of the sovereignty of the people we mean an abstract sovereignty; the new psychology means by the sovereignty of the people that which they actually create. It is true that we have none at present. Duguit is perfectly right in opposing the old theory of the “sovereign state.”</p>
			<p>But Duguit says that if there were a collective will there is no reason why it should impose itself on the individual wills. “<i lang="fr">L’affirmation que la collectivité a le pouvoir légitime de commander force qu’elle est la collectivité, est une affirmation d’ordre métaphysique <a id="tn274"/>oú religieux.⁠ ⁠…</i>” This in itself shows a misunderstanding of the evolution of a collective will. This school does not seem to understand that everyone must contribute to the collective will; ideally it would have no power unless this happened, actually we can only be constantly approaching this ideal.<a id="r108"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f108"><sup>[108]</sup></a> Duguit makes a thing-in-itself of <i lang="fr">la volonté nationale</i>⁠—it is a most insidious fallacy which we all fall into again and again. But we can never accept that kind of a collective will. We believe in a collective will only so far as it is <em>really</em> forming from out our actual daily life of intermingling men and women. There is <span class="pageno" id="Page_275">275</span>nothing “metaphysical” or “religious” about this. Duguit says metaphysics “<i lang="fr">doit rester étranger à toute jurisprudence</i>.⁠ ⁠…” We agree to that and insist that jurisprudence must be founded on social psychology.</p>
			<p>Five people produce a collective idea, a collective will. That will becomes at once an imperative upon those five people. It is not an imperative upon anyone else. On the other hand no one else can make imperatives for those five people. It has been generated by the social process which is a self-sufficing, all-inclusive process. The same process which creates the collective will creates at the same time the imperative of the collective will. It is absolutely impossible to give self-government: no one has the right to give it; no one has the power to give it. Group A <em>allows</em> group B to govern itself? This is an empty permission unless B has <em>learned how</em> to govern itself. Self-government must always be grown. Sovereignty is always a psychological process.</p>
			<p>Many of Duguit’s errors come from a misconception of the social process. Violently opposed to a collective will, he sees in the individual thought and will the only genuine “<i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>” (it is interesting to notice that <i lang="fr">la chose en soi</i> finds a place in the thought of many pluralists). Not admitting the process of “community” he asserts that <i lang="fr">la règle de droit</i> is anterior and superior to the state; he does not see the true relation of <i lang="fr">le droit</i> to <i lang="fr">l’état</i>, that they evolve together, that the same process which creates <i lang="fr">le droit</i> creates <i lang="fr">l’état</i>.<a id="r109"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f109"><sup>[109]</sup></a> The will of the people, he insists, can not create <i lang="fr">le droit</i>. Here he does not see the unity of the social process. He separates will and purpose and the activity of the reciprocal interchange instead of seeing them as one. Certainly the will of the people does not create <i lang="fr">le droit</i>, but the social process in its entire unity does. “Positive law must <span class="pageno" id="Page_276">276</span>constantly follow <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i>.” Of course. “<i lang="fr">Le droit objectif</i> is constantly evolving.” Certainly. But how evolving? Here is where we disagree. The social process creates <i lang="fr">le droit objectif</i>, and will is an essential part of the social process. Purpose is an essential part of the social process. Separate the parts of the social process and you have a different idea of jurisprudence, of democracy, of political institutions. Aim is all-important for Duguit. The rule of <i lang="fr">le droit</i> is the rule of conscious ends: only the aim gives a will its worth; if the aim is juridical (conformed to <i lang="fr">la règle de droit</i>), then the will is juridical. Thus Duguit’s pragmatism is one which has not yet rid itself of absolute standards. It might be urged that it has, because he finds his absolute standards in “social solidarity.” But anyone who believes that the individual will is a <i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>, and who separates the elements of the social process, does not wholly admit the self-sufficing character of that process.</p>
			<p>The modern tendency in many quarters, however, in regard to conceptions of social practice, is to substitute ends for will.<a id="r110"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f110"><sup>[110]</sup></a> This is a perfectly comprehensible reaction, but future jurisprudence must certainly unite these two ideas. Professor Jethro Brown says, “The justification for governmental action is found not in consent but in the purpose it serves.” Not in that alone. <span class="pageno" id="Page_277">277</span>De Maeztu says, “The profound secret of associations is not that men have need of one another, but that they need the same thing.” These two ideas can merge. Professor Brown makes the common good the basis of the new doctrine of natural right.<a id="r111"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f111"><sup>[111]</sup></a> But we must all remember, what I do not doubt this writer does remember, that purpose can never be a <i lang="fr">chose en soi</i>, and that, of the utmost importance, the “new natural law” can be brought into manifestation only by certain modes of association.</p>
			<p>It is true, as Duguit says, that the state has the “right” to will because of the thing willed, that it has no “subjective” right to will, that its justification is in its purpose. (This is of course the truth in regard to all our “rights”; they are justified only by the use we make of them.) And yet there is a truth in the old idea of the “right” of a collectivity to will. These two ideas must be synthesized. They <em>are</em> synthesized by the new psychology which sees the purpose forming the will at the same time as the will forms the purpose, which finds no separation anywhere in the social process. We can never think of purpose as something in front which leads us on, as the carrot the donkey. Purpose is never in front of us, it appears at every moment with the appearance of will. Thus the new school of jurisprudence founded on social psychology cannot be a teleological school alone, but must be founded on all the elements which constitute the social process. Ideals do not operate in a vacuum. This theorists seem sometimes to forget, but those of us who have had tragic experience of this truth are likely to give more emphasis to the interaction of purpose, will and activity, past and present activity. The recognition that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> is the product of a group process swallows up the question as to whether it is “objective” <span class="pageno" id="Page_278">278</span>or “subjective”; it is neither, it is both; we look at the matter quite differently.<a id="r112"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f112"><sup>[112]</sup></a></p>
			<p>To sum up this point. We must all, I think, agree with the “objective” conception of law in its essence, but not in its dividing the social process, a true unity, into separate parts. Rights arise from relation, and purpose is bound up in the relation. The relation of men to one another and to the object sought are part of the same process. Duguit has rendered us invaluable service in his insistence that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> must be based on “<i lang="fr">la vie actuelle</i>,” but he does not take the one step further and see that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> is born within the <em>group</em>, that there is an essential law of the group as different from other modes of association, and that this has many implications.</p>
			<p>The <i lang="fr">droit</i> evolved by a group is the <i lang="fr">droit</i> of that group. The <i lang="fr">droit</i> evolved by a state-group (we agree that there is no state-group yet, the state is evolving, the <i lang="fr">droit</i> is evolving, there is only an approximate state, an approximately genuine <i lang="fr">droit</i>) is the <i lang="fr">droit</i> of the state. The contribution of the new psychology is that <i lang="fr">le droit</i> comes from relation and is always in relation. The warning of the new psychology to the advocates of vocational representation is that the <i lang="fr">droit</i> (either as law or right)<a id="r113"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f113"><sup>[113]</sup></a> evolved by men of one occupation only will represent too little intermingling to express the “community” truth. We don’t want doctors’ ethics and lawyers’ ethics, and so on through the <a id="tn278"/>various groups. That is just the trouble <span class="pageno" id="Page_279">279</span>at present. Employers and employees meet in conference. Watch those conferences. The difference of interest is not always the whole difficulty; there is also the difference of standard. Capitalist ethics and workman ethics are often opposed. We must accept <i lang="fr">le droit</i> as a social product, as a group product, but we must have groups which will unify interests and standards. Law and politics can be founded on nothing but vital modes of association.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Roscoe Pound’s exposition of modern law is just here a great help to political theory. The essential, the vital part of his teaching, is, not his theory of law based on interests, not his emphasis upon relation, but his bringing together of these two ideas. This takes us out of the vague, nebulous region of much of the older legal and political theory, and shows us the actual method of living our daily lives. All that he says of relation implies that we must seek and bring into use those modes of association which will reveal true interests, actual interests, yet not particularist interests but the interests discovered through group relations⁠—employer and employed, master and servant, landlord and tenant, <abbr class="eoc">etc.</abbr> But, and this is of great importance, these groups must be made into genuine groups. If law is to be a group-product, we must see that our groups are real groups, we must find the true principle of association. For this we need, as I must continually repeat, the study of group psychology. “Life,” “man,” “society,” are coming to have little meaning for us: it is your life and my life with which we are concerned, not “man” but the men we see around us, not “society” but the many societies in which we pass our lives. “Social” values? We want individual values, but individual values discovered through group relations.</p>
			<p>To sum up this point: (1) law should be a group-product, <span class="pageno" id="Page_280">280</span>(2) we should therefore have genuine groups, (3) political method must be such that the “law” of the group can become embodied in our legislation.</p>
			<p>M. Duguit’s disregarding of the laws of that intermingling which is the basis of his <i lang="fr">droit objectif</i> leads to a partial understanding only of the vote. Voting is for him still in a way a particularist matter. To be sure he calls it a function and that marks a certain advance. Moreover he wishes us to consider the vote an “objective” power, an “objective” duty, not a “subjective” right. This is an alluring theory in a pragmatic age. And if you see it leading to syndicalism which you have already accepted beforehand, it is all the more alluring! But to call the vote a function is only half the story; as long as it is a particularist vote, it does not help us much to have it rest on function, or rather, it goes just half the way. It must rest on the intermingling of all my functions, it must rest on the intermingling of all my functions with all the functions of all the others; it must rest indeed on social solidarity, but a social solidarity in which every man interpenetrating with every other is thereby approaching a whole of which he is the whole at one point.</p>
			<p>Duguit, full of Rousseau, does not think it possible to have a collective sovereignty without everyone having an equal share of this collective sovereignty, and he most strenuously opposes <i lang="fr">le suffrage universel égalitaire</i>. But <i lang="fr">le suffrage universel égalitaire</i> staring all the obvious <em>in</em>equalities of man in the face, Rousseau’s divided sovereignty based on an indivisible sovereignty⁠—all these things no longer trouble you when you see the vote as the expression at one point of some approximate whole produced by the intermingling of men.</p>
			<p>True sovereignty and true functionalism are not opposed; the vote resting on “subjective” right and <span class="pageno" id="Page_281">281</span>the vote resting on “objective” power are not opposed, but the particularist vote and the genuinely individual vote are opposed. Any doctrine which contains a trace of particularism in any form cannot gain our allegiance.</p>
			<p>Again Duguit’s ignoring of the psychology of the social process leads him to the separation of governors and governed. This separation is for him the essential fact of the state. Sovereignty is with those individuals who can impose their will upon others. He says no one can give orders to himself, but as a matter of fact no one can really give orders to anyone but himself.<a id="r114"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f114"><sup>[114]</sup></a> Here Duguit confuses present facts and future possibilities. Let us <em>be</em> the state, let us be sovereign⁠—over ourselves. As the problem in the life of each one of us is to find the way to unify the warring elements within us⁠—as only thus do we gain sovereignty over ourselves⁠—so the problem is the same for the state. Duguit is right in saying that the German theory of auto-limitation is unnecessary, but not in the reasons he gives for it. A psychic entity is subordinate to the <i lang="fr">droit</i> which itself evolves not by auto-limitation, but by the essential and intrinsic law of the group.</p>
			<p>But Duguit has done us large service not only in his doctrine of a law, a right, born of our actual life, of our always evolving life, but also in his insistence on the individual which makes him one of the builders of the new individualism.<a id="r115"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f115"><sup>[115]</sup></a> We see in the gradual transformation of the idea of natural law which took place among <span class="pageno" id="Page_282">282</span>the French jurists of the end of the nineteenth century, the struggle of the old particularism with the feelings-out for the true individualism. That the French have been slow to give up individual rights, that many of them have not given them up for any collective theory, but, feeling the truth underneath the old doctrine, have sought (and found) a different interpretation, a different basis and a different use, has helped us all immeasurably.</p>
			<hr class="c014"/>
			<p>Group psychology shows us the process of man creating social power, evolving his own “rights.” We now see that man’s only rights are group-rights. These are based on his activity in the group⁠—you can call it function if you like, only unless you are careful that tends to become mechanical, and it tends to an organic functionalism in which lurk many dangers. But the main point for us to grasp is that we can never understand rights by an abstract discussion of “subjective” <i><abbr>vs.</abbr></i> “objective”⁠—only by the closest study of the process by which these rights are evolved. The true basis of rights is neither a “mystical” idea of related personalities, nor is it to be found entirely in the relation of the associated to the object sought; a truly modern conception of law synthesizes these two ideas. “Function,” de Maeztu tells us “[is] a quality independent of the wills of men.” This is a meaningless sentence to the new psychology. At present the exposition of the “objective” theory of law is largely a polemic against the “subjective.” When we understand more of group psychology, and it can be put forth in a positive manner, it will win many more adherents.</p>
			<p>Then as soon as the psychological foundation of law is clearly seen, the sovereignty of the state in its old meaning will be neither acclaimed nor denied. An understanding <span class="pageno" id="Page_283">283</span>of the group process teaches us the true nature of sovereignty. We can agree with the pluralist school that the present state has no “right” to sovereignty;<a id="r116"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f116"><sup>[116]</sup></a> we can go further and say that the state will never be more than ideally sovereign, further still and say that the whole idea of sovereignty must be recast and take a different place in political science. And yet, with the meaning given to it by present psychology, it is perhaps the most vital thought of the new politics. The sovereign is not the crowd, it is not millions of unrelated atoms, but men joining to form a real whole. The atomistic idea of sovereignty is dead, we all agree, but we may learn to define sovereignty differently.</p>
			<p>Curiously enough, some of the pluralists are acknowledged followers of Gierke and Maitland, and base much of their doctrine on the “real personality” of the group. But the group can create its own personality only by the “compounding of consciousness,” by every member being at one and the same time an individual and the “real personality.” If it is possible for the members of a group to evolve a unified consciousness, a common idea, a collective will, for the many to become really one, not in a mystical sense but as an actual fact, for the group to have a real not a fictional personality, this process can be carried on through group and group, our task, an infinite one, to evolve a state with a real personality. The imagination of the born pluralist stops with the group.<a id="r117"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f117"><sup>[117]</sup></a></p>
			<p>But even in regard to the group the pluralists seem <span class="pageno" id="Page_284">284</span>sometimes to fall into contradictions. Sovereignty, we are often told, must be decentralized and divided among the local units. But according to their own theory by whom is the sovereignty to be divided? The fact is that the local units must <em>grow</em> sovereignty, that we want to revivify local life not for the purpose of breaking up sovereignty, but for the purpose of creating a real sovereignty.</p>
			<p>The pluralists always tell us that the unified state proceeds from the One to the Many; that is why they discard the unified state. This is not true of the unify<em>ing</em> state which I am trying to indicate. They think that the only alternative to pluralism is where you begin with the whole. That is, it is true, the classic monism, but we know now that authority is to proceed from the Many to the One, from the smallest neighborhood group up to the city, the state, the nation. This is the process of life, always a unifying through the interpenetration of the Many⁠—Oneness an infinite goal.</p>
			<p>This is expressed more accurately by saying, as I have elsewhere, that the One and the Many are constantly creating each other. The pluralists object to the One that comes before the Many. They are right, but we need not therefore give up oneness. When we say that there is the One which comes <em>from</em> the Many, this does not mean that the One is <em>above</em> the Many. The deepest truth of life is that the interrelating by which both are at the same time a-making is constant. This must be clearly understood in the building of the new state.</p>
			<p>The essential error in the theory of distributed sovereignty is that each group has an isolated sovereignty. The truth is that each should represent the whole united sovereignty at one point as each individual is his whole <span class="pageno" id="Page_285">285</span>group at one point. An understanding of this fact seems to me absolutely necessary to further development of political theory.<a id="r118"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f118"><sup>[118]</sup></a> This does not mean that the state must come first, that the group gets its power from the state. This the pluralists rightfully resent. The power within the group is its own genetically and wholly. But the same force which forms a group may form a group of groups.</p>
			<p>But the conclusion drawn by some pluralists from the theory of “real personality” is that the state is superfluous because a corporate personality has the right to assert autonomy over itself. They thus acknowledge that pluralism means for them group and group and group side by side. But here they are surely wrong. They ignore the implications of the psychological fact that power developed within the group does not cease with the formation of the group. That very same force which has bound the individuals together in the group (and which the theory of “real personality” recognizes) goes on working, you cannot stop it; it is the fundamental force of life, of all nature, of all humanity, the universal law of being⁠—the out-reaching for the purpose of further unifying. If this force goes on working after the group is formed, what becomes of it? It must reach out to embrace other groups in order to repeat exactly the same process.</p>
			<p>When you stop your automobile without stopping your engine, the power which runs your car goes on working exactly the same, but is completely lost. It only makes a noise. Do we want this to happen to our groups? Are they to end only in disagreeable noises? In order that the group-force shall not be lost, we must provide means for it to go on working effectively after <span class="pageno" id="Page_286">286</span>it is no longer needed within the group, so to speak. We must provide ways for it to go out to meet the life force of other groups, the new power thus generated again and endlessly to seek new forms of unification. No “whole” can imprison us infinite beings. The centre of today is the circumference of tomorrow.</p>
			<p>Thus while the state is not necessary to grant authority, it is the natural outcome of the uniting groups. The state must be the collective mind embodying the moral will and purpose of All. From living group to living group to the “real” state⁠—such must be our line of evolution.</p>
			<p>Sovereignty, it is true, is a fact, not a theory. Whoever can gain obedience has the sovereign power. But we must go beyond this and seek those political methods by which the command shall be with those who have evolved a genuine authority, that is, an authority evolved by what I have called the true social process. We must go beyond this and seek those methods by which a genuine authority <em>can</em> be evolved, by which the true social process shall be everywhere possible. To repeat: first, the true social process must be given full opportunity and scope, then it must be made the basis of political method. Then shall we see emerging a genuine authority which we can all acclaim as sovereign. There is, I agree with the pluralists, a great advantage in that authority being multiple and varied, but a static pluralism, so to speak, would be as bad as a static monism. The groups are always reaching out <em>towards</em> unity. Our safeguard against crystallization is that every fresh unity means (as I have tried to show in <a class="pginternal" href="#ch_3">chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">III</span></a>) the throwing out of myriad fresh differences⁠—our safeguard is that the universe knows no static unity. Unification means sterilization; unifying means a perpetual generating. We do not want the unified sovereignty of Germany; but <span class="pageno" id="Page_287">287</span>when you put the individual and the group first, you get unify<em>ing</em> sovereignty.<a id="r119"/><a class="c015 pginternal" href="#f119"><sup>[119]</sup></a></p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
